A studi IN scarlet . By A. conan doyl [ 1 ] origin transcrib ’ s note : thi etext is prepar directli from an 1887 edit , and care ha been taken to duplic the origin exactli , includ typograph and punctuat vagari . addit to the text includ ad the underscor charact to indic ital , and textual end-not in squar brace . project gutenberg editor ’ s note : In reproof and move old PG file such as thi to the present PG directori system it is the polici to reformat the text to conform to present PG standard . In thi case howev , in consider of the note abov of the origin transcrib describ hi care to tri to duplic the origin 1887 edit as to typographi and punctuat vagari , no chang have been made in thi ascii text file . howev , in the latin-1 file and thi html file , present standard are follow and the sever french and spanish word have been given their proper accent . part II , the countri of the saint , deal much with the mormon church . A studi IN scarlet . part I . ( _be a reprint from the reminisc of_ john H. watson , m.d. , _late of the armi medic department._ ) [ 2 ] chapter I. mr. sherlock holm . IN the year 1878 I took my degre of doctor of medicin of the univers of london , and proceed to netley to go through the cours prescrib for surgeon in the armi . have complet my studi there , I wa duli attach to the fifth northumberland fusili as assist surgeon . the regiment wa station in india at the time , and befor I could join it , the second afghan war had broken out . On land at bombay , I learn that my corp had advanc through the pass , and wa alreadi deep in the enemi ’ s countri . I follow , howev , with mani other offic who were in the same situat as myself , and succeed in reach candahar in safeti , where I found my regiment , and at onc enter upon my new duti . the campaign brought honour and promot to mani , but for me it had noth but misfortun and disast . I wa remov from my brigad and attach to the berkshir , with whom I serv at the fatal battl of maiwand . there I wa struck on the shoulder by a jezail bullet , which shatter the bone and graze the subclavian arteri . I should have fallen into the hand of the murder ghazi had it not been for the devot and courag shown by murray , my orderli , who threw me across a pack-hors , and succeed in bring me safe to the british line . worn with pain , and weak from the prolong hardship which I had undergon , I wa remov , with a great train of wound suffer , to the base hospit at peshawar . here I ralli , and had alreadi improv so far as to be abl to walk about the ward , and even to bask a littl upon the verandah , when I wa struck down by enter fever , that curs of our indian possess . for month my life wa despair of , and when at last I came to myself and becam convalesc , I wa so weak and emaci that a medic board determin that not a day should be lost in send me back to england . I wa dispatch , accordingli , in the troopship “ oront , ” and land a month later on portsmouth jetti , with my health irretriev ruin , but with permiss from a patern govern to spend the next nine month in attempt to improv it . I had neither kith nor kin in england , and wa therefor as free as air -- or as free as an incom of eleven shill and sixpenc a day will permit a man to be . under such circumst , I natur gravit to london , that great cesspool into which all the lounger and idler of the empir are irresist drain . there I stay for some time at a privat hotel in the strand , lead a comfortless , meaningless exist , and spend such money as I had , consider more freeli than I ought . So alarm did the state of my financ becom , that I soon realiz that I must either leav the metropoli and rustic somewher in the countri , or that I must make a complet alter in my style of live . choos the latter altern , I began by make up my mind to leav the hotel , and to take up my quarter in some less pretenti and less expens domicil . On the veri day that I had come to thi conclus , I wa stand at the criterion bar , when some one tap me on the shoulder , and turn round I recogn young stamford , who had been a dresser under me at bart . the sight of a friendli face in the great wilder of london is a pleasant thing inde to a lone man . In old day stamford had never been a particular croni of mine , but now I hail him with enthusiasm , and he , in hi turn , appear to be delight to see me . In the exuber of my joy , I ask him to lunch with me at the holborn , and we start off togeth in a hansom . “ whatev have you been do with yourself , watson ? ” he ask in undisguis wonder , as we rattl through the crowd london street . “ you are as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut. ” I gave him a short sketch of my adventur , and had hardli conclud it by the time that we reach our destin . “ poor devil ! ” he said , commiseratingli , after he had listen to my misfortun . “ what are you up to now ? ” “ look for lodgings. ” [ 3 ] I answer . “ tri to solv the problem as to whether it is possibl to get comfort room at a reason price. ” “ that ’ s a strang thing , ” remark my companion ; “ you are the second man to-day that ha use that express to me. ” “ and who wa the first ? ” I ask . “ A fellow who is work at the chemic laboratori up at the hospit . He wa bemoan himself thi morn becaus he could not get someon to go halv with him in some nice room which he had found , and which were too much for hi purse. ” “ By jove ! ” I cri , “ if he realli want someon to share the room and the expens , I am the veri man for him . I should prefer have a partner to be alone. ” young stamford look rather strang at me over hi wine-glass . “ you don ’ t know sherlock holm yet , ” he said ; “ perhap you would not care for him as a constant companion. ” “ whi , what is there against him ? ” “ Oh , I didn ’ t say there wa anyth against him . He is a littl queer in hi idea -- an enthusiast in some branch of scienc . As far as I know he is a decent fellow enough. ” “ A medic student , I suppos ? ” said I . “ No -- I have no idea what he intend to go in for . I believ he is well up in anatomi , and he is a first-class chemist ; but , as far as I know , he ha never taken out ani systemat medic class . hi studi are veri desultori and eccentr , but he ha amass a lot of out-of-th way knowledg which would astonish hi professors. ” “ did you never ask him what he wa go in for ? ” I ask . “ No ; he is not a man that it is easi to draw out , though he can be commun enough when the fanci seiz him. ” “ I should like to meet him , ” I said . “ If I am to lodg with anyon , I should prefer a man of studiou and quiet habit . I am not strong enough yet to stand much nois or excit . I had enough of both in afghanistan to last me for the remaind of my natur exist . how could I meet thi friend of your ? ” “ He is sure to be at the laboratori , ” return my companion . “ He either avoid the place for week , or els he work there from morn to night . If you like , we shall drive round togeth after luncheon. ” “ certainli , ” I answer , and the convers drift away into other channel . As we made our way to the hospit after leav the holborn , stamford gave me a few more particular about the gentleman whom I propos to take as a fellow-lodg . “ you mustn ’ t blame me if you don ’ t get on with him , ” he said ; “ I know noth more of him than I have learn from meet him occasion in the laboratori . you propos thi arrang , so you must not hold me responsible. ” “ If we don ’ t get on it will be easi to part compani , ” I answer . “ It seem to me , stamford , ” I ad , look hard at my companion , “ that you have some reason for wash your hand of the matter . Is thi fellow ’ s temper so formid , or what is it ? don ’ t be mealy-mouth about it. ” “ It is not easi to express the inexpress , ” he answer with a laugh . “ holm is a littl too scientif for my tast -- it approach to cold-blooded . I could imagin hi give a friend a littl pinch of the latest veget alkaloid , not out of malevol , you understand , but simpli out of a spirit of inquiri in order to have an accur idea of the effect . To do him justic , I think that he would take it himself with the same readi . He appear to have a passion for definit and exact knowledge. ” “ veri right too. ” “ ye , but it may be push to excess . when it come to beat the subject in the dissecting-room with a stick , it is certainli take rather a bizarr shape. ” “ beat the subject ! ” “ ye , to verifi how far bruis may be produc after death . I saw him at it with my own eyes. ” “ and yet you say he is not a medic student ? ” “ No . heaven know what the object of hi studi are . but here we are , and you must form your own impress about him. ” As he spoke , we turn down a narrow lane and pass through a small side-door , which open into a wing of the great hospit . It wa familiar ground to me , and I need no guid as we ascend the bleak stone staircas and made our way down the long corridor with it vista of whitewash wall and dun-colour door . near the further end a low arch passag branch away from it and led to the chemic laboratori . thi wa a lofti chamber , line and litter with countless bottl . broad , low tabl were scatter about , which bristl with retort , test-tub , and littl bunsen lamp , with their blue flicker flame . there wa onli one student in the room , who wa bend over a distant tabl absorb in hi work . At the sound of our step he glanc round and sprang to hi feet with a cri of pleasur . “ I ’ ve found it ! I ’ ve found it , ” he shout to my companion , run toward us with a test-tub in hi hand . “ I have found a re-ag which is precipit by hoemoglobin , [ 4 ] and by noth else. ” had he discov a gold mine , greater delight could not have shone upon hi featur . “ Dr . watson , mr. sherlock holm , ” said stamford , introduc us . “ how are you ? ” he said cordial , grip my hand with a strength for which I should hardli have given him credit . “ you have been in afghanistan , I perceive. ” “ how on earth did you know that ? ” I ask in astonish . “ never mind , ” said he , chuckl to himself . “ the question now is about hoemoglobin . No doubt you see the signific of thi discoveri of mine ? ” “ It is interest , chemic , no doubt , ” I answer , “ but practic -- -- ” “ whi , man , it is the most practic medico-leg discoveri for year . don ’ t you see that it give us an infal test for blood stain . come over here now ! ” He seiz me by the coat-sleev in hi eager , and drew me over to the tabl at which he had been work . “ let us have some fresh blood , ” he said , dig a long bodkin into hi finger , and draw off the result drop of blood in a chemic pipett . “ now , I add thi small quantiti of blood to a litr of water . you perceiv that the result mixtur ha the appear of pure water . the proport of blood can not be more than one in a million . I have no doubt , howev , that we shall be abl to obtain the characterist reaction. ” As he spoke , he threw into the vessel a few white crystal , and then ad some drop of a transpar fluid . In an instant the content assum a dull mahogani colour , and a brownish dust wa precipit to the bottom of the glass jar . “ Ha ! ha ! ” he cri , clap hi hand , and look as delight as a child with a new toy . “ what do you think of that ? ” “ It seem to be a veri delic test , ” I remark . “ beauti ! beauti ! the old guiacum test wa veri clumsi and uncertain . So is the microscop examin for blood corpuscl . the latter is valueless if the stain are a few hour old . now , thi appear to act as well whether the blood is old or new . had thi test been invent , there are hundr of men now walk the earth who would long ago have paid the penalti of their crimes. ” “ inde ! ” I murmur . “ crimin case are continu hing upon that one point . A man is suspect of a crime month perhap after it ha been commit . hi linen or cloth are examin , and brownish stain discov upon them . are they blood stain , or mud stain , or rust stain , or fruit stain , or what are they ? that is a question which ha puzzl mani an expert , and whi ? becaus there wa no reliabl test . now we have the sherlock holm ’ test , and there will no longer be ani difficulty. ” hi eye fairli glitter as he spoke , and he put hi hand over hi heart and bow as if to some applaud crowd conjur up by hi imagin . “ you are to be congratul , ” I remark , consider surpris at hi enthusiasm . “ there wa the case of von bischoff at frankfort last year . He would certainli have been hung had thi test been in exist . then there wa mason of bradford , and the notori muller , and lefevr of montpelli , and samson of new orlean . I could name a score of case in which it would have been decisive. ” “ you seem to be a walk calendar of crime , ” said stamford with a laugh . “ you might start a paper on those line . call it the ‘ polic new of the past. ’ ” “ veri interest read it might be made , too , ” remark sherlock holm , stick a small piec of plaster over the prick on hi finger . “ I have to be care , ” he continu , turn to me with a smile , “ for I dabbl with poison a good deal. ” He held out hi hand as he spoke , and I notic that it wa all mottl over with similar piec of plaster , and discolour with strong acid . “ We came here on busi , ” said stamford , sit down on a high three-leg stool , and push anoth one in my direct with hi foot . “ My friend here want to take dig , and as you were complain that you could get no one to go halv with you , I thought that I had better bring you together. ” sherlock holm seem delight at the idea of share hi room with me . “ I have my eye on a suit in baker street , ” he said , “ which would suit us down to the ground . you don ’ t mind the smell of strong tobacco , I hope ? ” “ I alway smoke ‘ ship ’ s ’ myself , ” I answer . “ that ’ s good enough . I gener have chemic about , and occasion do experi . would that annoy you ? ” “ By no means. ” “ let me see -- what are my other shortcom . I get in the dump at time , and don ’ t open my mouth for day on end . you must not think I am sulki when I do that . just let me alon , and I ’ ll soon be right . what have you to confess now ? It ’ s just as well for two fellow to know the worst of one anoth befor they begin to live together. ” I laugh at thi cross-examin . “ I keep a bull pup , ” I said , “ and I object to row becaus my nerv are shaken , and I get up at all sort of ungodli hour , and I am extrem lazi . I have anoth set of vice when I ’ m well , but those are the princip one at present. ” “ Do you includ violin-play in your categori of row ? ” he ask , anxious . “ It depend on the player , ” I answer . “ A well-play violin is a treat for the god -- a badly-play one -- -- ” “ Oh , that ’ s all right , ” he cri , with a merri laugh . “ I think we may consid the thing as settl -- that is , if the room are agreeabl to you. ” “ when shall we see them ? ” “ call for me here at noon to-morrow , and we ’ ll go togeth and settl everyth , ” he answer . “ all right -- noon exactli , ” said I , shake hi hand . We left him work among hi chemic , and we walk togeth toward my hotel . “ By the way , ” I ask suddenli , stop and turn upon stamford , “ how the deuc did he know that I had come from afghanistan ? ” My companion smile an enigmat smile . “ that ’ s just hi littl peculiar , ” he said . “ A good mani peopl have want to know how he find thing out. ” “ Oh ! a mysteri is it ? ” I cri , rub my hand . “ thi is veri piquant . I am much oblig to you for bring us togeth . ‘ the proper studi of mankind is man , ’ you know. ” “ you must studi him , then , ” stamford said , as he bade me good-by . “ you ’ ll find him a knotti problem , though . I ’ ll wager he learn more about you than you about him . good-bye. ” “ good-by , ” I answer , and stroll on to my hotel , consider interest in my new acquaint . chapter II . the scienc OF deduct . WE met next day as he had arrang , and inspect the room at No . 221b , [ 5 ] baker street , of which he had spoken at our meet . they consist of a coupl of comfort bed-room and a singl larg airi sitting-room , cheer furnish , and illumin by two broad window . So desir in everi way were the apart , and so moder did the term seem when divid between us , that the bargain wa conclud upon the spot , and we at onc enter into possess . that veri even I move my thing round from the hotel , and on the follow morn sherlock holm follow me with sever box and portmanteau . for a day or two we were busili employ in unpack and lay out our properti to the best advantag . that done , we gradual began to settl down and to accommod ourselv to our new surround . holm wa certainli not a difficult man to live with . He wa quiet in hi way , and hi habit were regular . It wa rare for him to be up after ten at night , and he had invari breakfast and gone out befor I rose in the morn . sometim he spent hi day at the chemic laboratori , sometim in the dissecting-room , and occasion in long walk , which appear to take him into the lowest portion of the citi . noth could exceed hi energi when the work fit wa upon him ; but now and again a reaction would seiz him , and for day on end he would lie upon the sofa in the sitting-room , hardli utter a word or move a muscl from morn to night . On these occas I have notic such a dreami , vacant express in hi eye , that I might have suspect him of be addict to the use of some narcot , had not the temper and cleanli of hi whole life forbidden such a notion . As the week went by , my interest in him and my curios as to hi aim in life , gradual deepen and increas . hi veri person and appear were such as to strike the attent of the most casual observ . In height he wa rather over six feet , and so excess lean that he seem to be consider taller . hi eye were sharp and pierc , save dure those interv of torpor to which I have allud ; and hi thin , hawk-lik nose gave hi whole express an air of alert and decis . hi chin , too , had the promin and squar which mark the man of determin . hi hand were invari blot with ink and stain with chemic , yet he wa possess of extraordinari delicaci of touch , as I frequent had occas to observ when I watch him manipul hi fragil philosoph instrument . the reader may set me down as a hopeless busybodi , when I confess how much thi man stimul my curios , and how often I endeavour to break through the retic which he show on all that concern himself . befor pronounc judgment , howev , be it rememb , how objectless wa my life , and how littl there wa to engag my attent . My health forbad me from ventur out unless the weather wa except genial , and I had no friend who would call upon me and break the monotoni of my daili exist . under these circumst , I eagerli hail the littl mysteri which hung around my companion , and spent much of my time in endeavour to unravel it . He wa not studi medicin . He had himself , in repli to a question , confirm stamford ’ s opinion upon that point . neither did he appear to have pursu ani cours of read which might fit him for a degre in scienc or ani other recogn portal which would give him an entranc into the learn world . yet hi zeal for certain studi wa remark , and within eccentr limit hi knowledg wa so extraordinarili ampl and minut that hi observ have fairli astound me . sure no man would work so hard or attain such precis inform unless he had some definit end in view . desultori reader are seldom remark for the exact of their learn . No man burden hi mind with small matter unless he ha some veri good reason for do so . hi ignor wa as remark as hi knowledg . Of contemporari literatur , philosophi and polit he appear to know next to noth . upon my quot thoma carlyl , he inquir in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done . My surpris reach a climax , howev , when I found incident that he wa ignor of the copernican theori and of the composit of the solar system . that ani civil human be in thi nineteenth centuri should not be awar that the earth travel round the sun appear to be to me such an extraordinari fact that I could hardli realiz it . “ you appear to be astonish , ” he said , smile at my express of surpris . “ now that I do know it I shall do my best to forget it. ” “ To forget it ! ” “ you see , ” he explain , “ I consid that a man ’ s brain origin is like a littl empti attic , and you have to stock it with such furnitur as you choos . A fool take in all the lumber of everi sort that he come across , so that the knowledg which might be use to him get crowd out , or at best is jumbl up with a lot of other thing so that he ha a difficulti in lay hi hand upon it . now the skil workman is veri care inde as to what he take into hi brain-att . He will have noth but the tool which may help him in do hi work , but of these he ha a larg assort , and all in the most perfect order . It is a mistak to think that that littl room ha elast wall and can distend to ani extent . depend upon it there come a time when for everi addit of knowledg you forget someth that you knew befor . It is of the highest import , therefor , not to have useless fact elbow out the use ones. ” “ but the solar system ! ” I protest . “ what the deuc is it to me ? ” he interrupt impati ; “ you say that we go round the sun . If we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of differ to me or to my work. ” I wa on the point of ask him what that work might be , but someth in hi manner show me that the question would be an unwelcom one . I ponder over our short convers , howev , and endeavour to draw my deduct from it . He said that he would acquir no knowledg which did not bear upon hi object . therefor all the knowledg which he possess wa such as would be use to him . I enumer in my own mind all the variou point upon which he had shown me that he wa except well-inform . I even took a pencil and jot them down . I could not help smile at the document when I had complet it . It ran in thi way -- sherlock holm -- hi limit . 1 . knowledg of literature. -- nil . 2 . philosophy. -- nil . 3 . astronomy. -- nil . 4 . politics. -- feebl . 5 . botany. -- variabl . well up in belladonna , opium , and poison gener . know noth of practic garden . 6 . geology. -- practic , but limit . tell at a glanc differ soil from each other . after walk ha shown me splash upon hi trouser , and told me by their colour and consist in what part of london he had receiv them . 7 . chemistry. -- profound . 8 . anatomy. -- accur , but unsystemat . 9 . sensat literature. -- immens . He appear to know everi detail of everi horror perpetr in the centuri . 10 . play the violin well . 11 . Is an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman . 12 . ha a good practic knowledg of british law . when I had got so far in my list I threw it into the fire in despair . “ If I can onli find what the fellow is drive at by reconcil all these accomplish , and discov a call which need them all , ” I said to myself , “ I may as well give up the attempt at once. ” I see that I have allud abov to hi power upon the violin . these were veri remark , but as eccentr as all hi other accomplish . that he could play piec , and difficult piec , I knew well , becaus at my request he ha play me some of mendelssohn ’ s lieder , and other favourit . when left to himself , howev , he would seldom produc ani music or attempt ani recogn air . lean back in hi arm-chair of an even , he would close hi eye and scrape carelessli at the fiddl which wa thrown across hi knee . sometim the chord were sonor and melancholi . occasion they were fantast and cheer . clearli they reflect the thought which possess him , but whether the music aid those thought , or whether the play wa simpli the result of a whim or fanci wa more than I could determin . I might have rebel against these exasper solo had it not been that he usual termin them by play in quick success a whole seri of my favourit air as a slight compens for the trial upon my patienc . dure the first week or so we had no caller , and I had begun to think that my companion wa as friendless a man as I wa myself . present , howev , I found that he had mani acquaint , and those in the most differ class of societi . there wa one littl sallow rat-fac , dark-ey fellow who wa introduc to me as mr. lestrad , and who came three or four time in a singl week . one morn a young girl call , fashion dress , and stay for half an hour or more . the same afternoon brought a grey-head , seedi visitor , look like a jew pedlar , who appear to me to be much excit , and who wa close follow by a slip-shod elderli woman . On anoth occas an old white-hair gentleman had an interview with my companion ; and on anoth a railway porter in hi velveteen uniform . when ani of these nondescript individu put in an appear , sherlock holm use to beg for the use of the sitting-room , and I would retir to my bed-room . He alway apolog to me for put me to thi inconveni . “ I have to use thi room as a place of busi , ” he said , “ and these peopl are my clients. ” again I had an opportun of ask him a point blank question , and again my delicaci prevent me from forc anoth man to confid in me . I imagin at the time that he had some strong reason for not allud to it , but he soon dispel the idea by come round to the subject of hi own accord . It wa upon the 4th of march , as I have good reason to rememb , that I rose somewhat earlier than usual , and found that sherlock holm had not yet finish hi breakfast . the landladi had becom so accustom to my late habit that my place had not been laid nor my coffe prepar . with the unreason petul of mankind I rang the bell and gave a curt intim that I wa readi . then I pick up a magazin from the tabl and attempt to while away the time with it , while my companion munch silent at hi toast . one of the articl had a pencil mark at the head , and I natur began to run my eye through it . it somewhat ambiti titl wa “ the book of life , ” and it attempt to show how much an observ man might learn by an accur and systemat examin of all that came in hi way . It struck me as be a remark mixtur of shrewd and of absurd . the reason wa close and intens , but the deduct appear to me to be far-fetch and exagger . the writer claim by a momentari express , a twitch of a muscl or a glanc of an eye , to fathom a man ’ s inmost thought . deceit , accord to him , wa an imposs in the case of one train to observ and analysi . hi conclus were as infal as so mani proposit of euclid . So startl would hi result appear to the uniniti that until they learn the process by which he had arriv at them they might well consid him as a necromanc . “ from a drop of water , ” said the writer , “ a logician could infer the possibl of an atlant or a niagara without have seen or heard of one or the other . So all life is a great chain , the natur of which is known whenev we are shown a singl link of it . like all other art , the scienc of deduct and analysi is one which can onli be acquir by long and patient studi nor is life long enough to allow ani mortal to attain the highest possibl perfect in it . befor turn to those moral and mental aspect of the matter which present the greatest difficulti , let the enquir begin by master more elementari problem . let him , on meet a fellow-mort , learn at a glanc to distinguish the histori of the man , and the trade or profess to which he belong . pueril as such an exercis may seem , it sharpen the faculti of observ , and teach one where to look and what to look for . By a man ’ s finger nail , by hi coat-sleev , by hi boot , by hi trouser knee , by the callos of hi forefing and thumb , by hi express , by hi shirt cuff -- by each of these thing a man ’ s call is plainli reveal . that all unit should fail to enlighten the compet enquir in ani case is almost inconceivable. ” “ what ineff twaddl ! ” I cri , slap the magazin down on the tabl , “ I never read such rubbish in my life. ” “ what is it ? ” ask sherlock holm . “ whi , thi articl , ” I said , point at it with my egg spoon as I sat down to my breakfast . “ I see that you have read it sinc you have mark it . I don ’ t deni that it is smartli written . It irrit me though . It is evid the theori of some arm-chair lounger who evolv all these neat littl paradox in the seclus of hi own studi . It is not practic . I should like to see him clap down in a third class carriag on the underground , and ask to give the trade of all hi fellow-travel . I would lay a thousand to one against him. ” “ you would lose your money , ” sherlock holm remark calmli . “ As for the articl I wrote it myself. ” “ you ! ” “ ye , I have a turn both for observ and for deduct . the theori which I have express there , and which appear to you to be so chimer are realli extrem practic -- so practic that I depend upon them for my bread and cheese. ” “ and how ? ” I ask involuntarili . “ well , I have a trade of my own . I suppos I am the onli one in the world . I ’ m a consult detect , if you can understand what that is . here in london we have lot of govern detect and lot of privat one . when these fellow are at fault they come to me , and I manag to put them on the right scent . they lay all the evid befor me , and I am gener abl , by the help of my knowledg of the histori of crime , to set them straight . there is a strong famili resembl about misde , and if you have all the detail of a thousand at your finger end , it is odd if you can ’ t unravel the thousand and first . lestrad is a well-known detect . He got himself into a fog recent over a forgeri case , and that wa what brought him here. ” “ and these other peopl ? ” “ they are mostli sent on by privat inquiri agenc . they are all peopl who are in troubl about someth , and want a littl enlighten . I listen to their stori , they listen to my comment , and then I pocket my fee. ” “ but do you mean to say , ” I said , “ that without leav your room you can unravel some knot which other men can make noth of , although they have seen everi detail for themselv ? ” “ quit so . I have a kind of intuit that way . now and again a case turn up which is a littl more complex . then I have to bustl about and see thing with my own eye . you see I have a lot of special knowledg which I appli to the problem , and which facilit matter wonder . those rule of deduct laid down in that articl which arous your scorn , are invalu to me in practic work . observ with me is second natur . you appear to be surpris when I told you , on our first meet , that you had come from afghanistan. ” “ you were told , no doubt. ” “ noth of the sort . I _knew_ you came from afghanistan . from long habit the train of thought ran so swiftli through my mind , that I arriv at the conclus without be consciou of intermedi step . there were such step , howev . the train of reason ran , ‘ here is a gentleman of a medic type , but with the air of a militari man . clearli an armi doctor , then . He ha just come from the tropic , for hi face is dark , and that is not the natur tint of hi skin , for hi wrist are fair . He ha undergon hardship and sick , as hi haggard face say clearli . hi left arm ha been injur . He hold it in a stiff and unnatur manner . where in the tropic could an english armi doctor have seen much hardship and got hi arm wound ? clearli in afghanistan. ’ the whole train of thought did not occupi a second . I then remark that you came from afghanistan , and you were astonished. ” “ It is simpl enough as you explain it , ” I said , smile . “ you remind me of edgar allen poe ’ s dupin . I had no idea that such individu did exist outsid of stories. ” sherlock holm rose and lit hi pipe . “ No doubt you think that you are compliment me in compar me to dupin , ” he observ . “ now , in my opinion , dupin wa a veri inferior fellow . that trick of hi of break in on hi friend ’ thought with an apropo remark after a quarter of an hour ’ s silenc is realli veri showi and superfici . He had some analyt geniu , no doubt ; but he wa by no mean such a phenomenon as poe appear to imagine. ” “ have you read gaboriau ’ s work ? ” I ask . “ doe lecoq come up to your idea of a detect ? ” sherlock holm snif sardon . “ lecoq wa a miser bungler , ” he said , in an angri voic ; “ he had onli one thing to recommend him , and that wa hi energi . that book made me posit ill . the question wa how to identifi an unknown prison . I could have done it in twenty-four hour . lecoq took six month or so . It might be made a text-book for detect to teach them what to avoid. ” I felt rather indign at have two charact whom I had admir treat in thi cavali style . I walk over to the window , and stood look out into the busi street . “ thi fellow may be veri clever , ” I said to myself , “ but he is certainli veri conceited. ” “ there are no crime and no crimin in these day , ” he said , querul . “ what is the use of have brain in our profess . I know well that I have it in me to make my name famou . No man live or ha ever live who ha brought the same amount of studi and of natur talent to the detect of crime which I have done . and what is the result ? there is no crime to detect , or , at most , some bungl villaini with a motiv so transpar that even a scotland yard offici can see through it. ” I wa still annoy at hi bumptiou style of convers . I thought it best to chang the topic . “ I wonder what that fellow is look for ? ” I ask , point to a stalwart , plainly-dress individu who wa walk slowli down the other side of the street , look anxious at the number . He had a larg blue envelop in hi hand , and wa evid the bearer of a messag . “ you mean the retir sergeant of marin , ” said sherlock holm . “ brag and bounc ! ” thought I to myself . “ He know that I can not verifi hi guess. ” the thought had hardli pass through my mind when the man whom we were watch caught sight of the number on our door , and ran rapidli across the roadway . We heard a loud knock , a deep voic below , and heavi step ascend the stair . “ for mr. sherlock holm , ” he said , step into the room and hand my friend the letter . here wa an opportun of take the conceit out of him . He littl thought of thi when he made that random shot . “ may I ask , my lad , ” I said , in the blandest voic , “ what your trade may be ? ” “ commissionair , sir , ” he said , gruffli . “ uniform away for repairs. ” “ and you were ? ” I ask , with a slightli malici glanc at my companion . “ A sergeant , sir , royal marin light infantri , sir . No answer ? right , sir. ” He click hi heel togeth , rais hi hand in a salut , and wa gone . chapter iii . the lauriston garden mysteri [ 6 ] I confess that I wa consider startl by thi fresh proof of the practic natur of my companion ’ s theori . My respect for hi power of analysi increas wondrous . there still remain some lurk suspicion in my mind , howev , that the whole thing wa a pre-arrang episod , intend to dazzl me , though what earthli object he could have in take me in wa past my comprehens . when I look at him he had finish read the note , and hi eye had assum the vacant , lack-lustr express which show mental abstract . “ how in the world did you deduc that ? ” I ask . “ deduc what ? ” said he , petulantli . “ whi , that he wa a retir sergeant of marines. ” “ I have no time for trifl , ” he answer , brusqu ; then with a smile , “ excus my rude . you broke the thread of my thought ; but perhap it is as well . So you actual were not abl to see that that man wa a sergeant of marin ? ” “ No , indeed. ” “ It wa easier to know it than to explain whi I knew it . If you were ask to prove that two and two made four , you might find some difficulti , and yet you are quit sure of the fact . even across the street I could see a great blue anchor tattoo on the back of the fellow ’ s hand . that smack of the sea . He had a militari carriag , howev , and regul side whisker . there we have the marin . He wa a man with some amount of self-import and a certain air of command . you must have observ the way in which he held hi head and swung hi cane . A steadi , respect , middle-ag man , too , on the face of him -- all fact which led me to believ that he had been a sergeant. ” “ wonder ! ” I ejacul . “ commonplac , ” said holm , though I thought from hi express that he wa pleas at my evid surpris and admir . “ I said just now that there were no crimin . It appear that I am wrong -- look at thi ! ” He threw me over the note which the commissionair had brought . [ 7 ] “ whi , ” I cri , as I cast my eye over it , “ thi is terribl ! ” “ It doe seem to be a littl out of the common , ” he remark , calmli . “ would you mind read it to me aloud ? ” thi is the letter which I read to him -- -- “ MY dear mr. sherlock holm , -- “ there ha been a bad busi dure the night at 3 , lauriston garden , off the brixton road . our man on the beat saw a light there about two in the morn , and as the hous wa an empti one , suspect that someth wa amiss . He found the door open , and in the front room , which is bare of furnitur , discov the bodi of a gentleman , well dress , and have card in hi pocket bear the name of ‘ enoch J. drebber , cleveland , ohio , u.s.a. ’ there had been no robberi , nor is there ani evid as to how the man met hi death . there are mark of blood in the room , but there is no wound upon hi person . We are at a loss as to how he came into the empti hous ; inde , the whole affair is a puzzler . If you can come round to the hous ani time befor twelv , you will find me there . I have left everyth _in statu quo_ until I hear from you . If you are unabl to come I shall give you fuller detail , and would esteem it a great kind if you would favour me with your opinion . your faith , “ tobia gregson. ” “ gregson is the smartest of the scotland yarder , ” my friend remark ; “ he and lestrad are the pick of a bad lot . they are both quick and energet , but convent -- shockingli so . they have their knive into one anoth , too . they are as jealou as a pair of profession beauti . there will be some fun over thi case if they are both put upon the scent. ” I wa amaz at the calm way in which he rippl on . “ sure there is not a moment to be lost , ” I cri , “ shall I go and order you a cab ? ” “ I ’ m not sure about whether I shall go . I am the most incur lazi devil that ever stood in shoe leather -- that is , when the fit is on me , for I can be spri enough at times. ” “ whi , it is just such a chanc as you have been long for. ” “ My dear fellow , what doe it matter to me . suppos I unravel the whole matter , you may be sure that gregson , lestrad , and co. will pocket all the credit . that come of be an unoffici personage. ” “ but he beg you to help him. ” “ ye . He know that I am hi superior , and acknowledg it to me ; but he would cut hi tongu out befor he would own it to ani third person . howev , we may as well go and have a look . I shall work it out on my own hook . I may have a laugh at them if I have noth els . come on ! ” He hustl on hi overcoat , and bustl about in a way that show that an energet fit had supersed the apathet one . “ get your hat , ” he said . “ you wish me to come ? ” “ ye , if you have noth better to do. ” A minut later we were both in a hansom , drive furious for the brixton road . It wa a foggi , cloudi morn , and a dun-colour veil hung over the house-top , look like the reflect of the mud-colour street beneath . My companion wa in the best of spirit , and prattl away about cremona fiddl , and the differ between a stradivariu and an amati . As for myself , I wa silent , for the dull weather and the melancholi busi upon which we were engag , depress my spirit . “ you don ’ t seem to give much thought to the matter in hand , ” I said at last , interrupt holm ’ music disquisit . “ No data yet , ” he answer . “ It is a capit mistak to theoriz befor you have all the evid . It bias the judgment. ” “ you will have your data soon , ” I remark , point with my finger ; “ thi is the brixton road , and that is the hous , if I am not veri much mistaken. ” “ So it is . stop , driver , stop ! ” We were still a hundr yard or so from it , but he insist upon our alight , and we finish our journey upon foot . number 3 , lauriston garden wore an ill-omen and minatori look . It wa one of four which stood back some littl way from the street , two be occupi and two empti . the latter look out with three tier of vacant melancholi window , which were blank and dreari , save that here and there a “ To let ” card had develop like a cataract upon the blear pane . A small garden sprinkl over with a scatter erupt of sickli plant separ each of these hous from the street , and wa travers by a narrow pathway , yellowish in colour , and consist appar of a mixtur of clay and of gravel . the whole place wa veri sloppi from the rain which had fallen through the night . the garden wa bound by a three-foot brick wall with a fring of wood rail upon the top , and against thi wall wa lean a stalwart polic constabl , surround by a small knot of loafer , who crane their neck and strain their eye in the vain hope of catch some glimps of the proceed within . I had imagin that sherlock holm would at onc have hurri into the hous and plung into a studi of the mysteri . noth appear to be further from hi intent . with an air of nonchal which , under the circumst , seem to me to border upon affect , he loung up and down the pavement , and gaze vacantli at the ground , the sky , the opposit hous and the line of rail . have finish hi scrutini , he proceed slowli down the path , or rather down the fring of grass which flank the path , keep hi eye rivet upon the ground . twice he stop , and onc I saw him smile , and heard him utter an exclam of satisfact . there were mani mark of footstep upon the wet clayey soil , but sinc the polic had been come and go over it , I wa unabl to see how my companion could hope to learn anyth from it . still I had had such extraordinari evid of the quick of hi percept faculti , that I had no doubt that he could see a great deal which wa hidden from me . At the door of the hous we were met by a tall , white-fac , flaxen-hair man , with a notebook in hi hand , who rush forward and wrung my companion ’ s hand with effus . “ It is inde kind of you to come , ” he said , “ I have had everyth left untouched. ” “ except that ! ” my friend answer , point at the pathway . “ If a herd of buffalo had pass along there could not be a greater mess . No doubt , howev , you had drawn your own conclus , gregson , befor you permit this. ” “ I have had so much to do insid the hous , ” the detect said evas . “ My colleagu , mr. lestrad , is here . I had reli upon him to look after this. ” holm glanc at me and rais hi eyebrow sardon . “ with two such men as yourself and lestrad upon the ground , there will not be much for a third parti to find out , ” he said . gregson rub hi hand in a self-satisfi way . “ I think we have done all that can be done , ” he answer ; “ it ’ s a queer case though , and I knew your tast for such things. ” “ you did not come here in a cab ? ” ask sherlock holm . “ No , sir. ” “ nor lestrad ? ” “ No , sir. ” “ then let us go and look at the room. ” with which inconsequ remark he strode on into the hous , follow by gregson , whose featur express hi astonish . A short passag , bare plank and dusti , led to the kitchen and offic . two door open out of it to the left and to the right . one of these had obvious been close for mani week . the other belong to the dining-room , which wa the apart in which the mysteri affair had occur . holm walk in , and I follow him with that subdu feel at my heart which the presenc of death inspir . It wa a larg squar room , look all the larger from the absenc of all furnitur . A vulgar flare paper adorn the wall , but it wa blotch in place with mildew , and here and there great strip had becom detach and hung down , expos the yellow plaster beneath . opposit the door wa a showi fireplac , surmount by a mantelpiec of imit white marbl . On one corner of thi wa stuck the stump of a red wax candl . the solitari window wa so dirti that the light wa hazi and uncertain , give a dull grey ting to everyth , which wa intensifi by the thick layer of dust which coat the whole apart . all these detail I observ afterward . At present my attent wa centr upon the singl grim motionless figur which lay stretch upon the board , with vacant sightless eye stare up at the discolour ceil . It wa that of a man about forty-thre or forty-four year of age , middle-s , broad shoulder , with crisp curl black hair , and a short stubbl beard . He wa dress in a heavi broadcloth frock coat and waistcoat , with light-colour trouser , and immacul collar and cuff . A top hat , well brush and trim , wa place upon the floor besid him . hi hand were clench and hi arm thrown abroad , while hi lower limb were interlock as though hi death struggl had been a grievou one . On hi rigid face there stood an express of horror , and as it seem to me , of hatr , such as I have never seen upon human featur . thi malign and terribl contort , combin with the low forehead , blunt nose , and prognath jaw gave the dead man a singularli simiou and ape-lik appear , which wa increas by hi writh , unnatur postur . I have seen death in mani form , but never ha it appear to me in a more fearsom aspect than in that dark grimi apart , which look out upon one of the main arteri of suburban london . lestrad , lean and ferret-lik as ever , wa stand by the doorway , and greet my companion and myself . “ thi case will make a stir , sir , ” he remark . “ It beat anyth I have seen , and I am no chicken. ” “ there is no clue ? ” said gregson . “ none at all , ” chime in lestrad . sherlock holm approach the bodi , and , kneel down , examin it intent . “ you are sure that there is no wound ? ” he ask , point to numer gout and splash of blood which lay all round . “ posit ! ” cri both detect . “ then , of cours , thi blood belong to a second individu -- [ 8 ] presum the murder , if murder ha been commit . It remind me of the circumst attend on the death of van jansen , in utrecht , in the year ‘ 34 . Do you rememb the case , gregson ? ” “ No , sir. ” “ read it up -- you realli should . there is noth new under the sun . It ha all been done before. ” As he spoke , hi nimbl finger were fli here , there , and everywher , feel , press , unbutton , examin , while hi eye wore the same far-away express which I have alreadi remark upon . So swiftli wa the examin made , that one would hardli have guess the minut with which it wa conduct . final , he snif the dead man ’ s lip , and then glanc at the sole of hi patent leather boot . “ He ha not been move at all ? ” he ask . “ No more than wa necessari for the purpos of our examination. ” “ you can take him to the mortuari now , ” he said . “ there is noth more to be learned. ” gregson had a stretcher and four men at hand . At hi call they enter the room , and the stranger wa lift and carri out . As they rais him , a ring tinkl down and roll across the floor . lestrad grab it up and stare at it with mystifi eye . “ there ’ s been a woman here , ” he cri . “ It ’ s a woman ’ s wedding-ring. ” He held it out , as he spoke , upon the palm of hi hand . We all gather round him and gaze at it . there could be no doubt that that circlet of plain gold had onc adorn the finger of a bride . “ thi complic matter , ” said gregson . “ heaven know , they were complic enough before. ” “ you ’ re sure it doesn ’ t simplifi them ? ” observ holm . “ there ’ s noth to be learn by stare at it . what did you find in hi pocket ? ” “ We have it all here , ” said gregson , point to a litter of object upon one of the bottom step of the stair . “ A gold watch , No . 97163 , by barraud , of london . gold albert chain , veri heavi and solid . gold ring , with mason devic . gold pin -- bull-dog ’ s head , with rubi as eye . russian leather card-cas , with card of enoch J. drebber of cleveland , correspond with the E. J. D. upon the linen . No purs , but loos money to the extent of seven pound thirteen . pocket edit of boccaccio ’ s ‘ decameron , ’ with name of joseph stangerson upon the fly-leaf . two letter -- one address to E. J. drebber and one to joseph stangerson. ” “ At what address ? ” “ american exchang , strand -- to be left till call for . they are both from the guion steamship compani , and refer to the sail of their boat from liverpool . It is clear that thi unfortun man wa about to return to new york. ” “ have you made ani inquiri as to thi man , stangerson ? ” “ I did it at onc , sir , ” said gregson . “ I have had advertis sent to all the newspap , and one of my men ha gone to the american exchang , but he ha not return yet. ” “ have you sent to cleveland ? ” “ We telegraph thi morning. ” “ how did you word your inquiri ? ” “ We simpli detail the circumst , and said that we should be glad of ani inform which could help us. ” “ you did not ask for particular on ani point which appear to you to be crucial ? ” “ I ask about stangerson. ” “ noth els ? Is there no circumst on which thi whole case appear to hing ? will you not telegraph again ? ” “ I have said all I have to say , ” said gregson , in an offend voic . sherlock holm chuckl to himself , and appear to be about to make some remark , when lestrad , who had been in the front room while we were hold thi convers in the hall , reappear upon the scene , rub hi hand in a pompou and self-satisfi manner . “ Mr . gregson , ” he said , “ I have just made a discoveri of the highest import , and one which would have been overlook had I not made a care examin of the walls. ” the littl man ’ s eye sparkl as he spoke , and he wa evid in a state of suppress exult at have score a point against hi colleagu . “ come here , ” he said , bustl back into the room , the atmospher of which felt clearer sinc the remov of it ghastli inmat . “ now , stand there ! ” He struck a match on hi boot and held it up against the wall . “ look at that ! ” he said , triumphantli . I have remark that the paper had fallen away in part . In thi particular corner of the room a larg piec had peel off , leav a yellow squar of coars plaster . across thi bare space there wa scrawl in blood-r letter a singl word -- rach . “ what do you think of that ? ” cri the detect , with the air of a showman exhibit hi show . “ thi wa overlook becaus it wa in the darkest corner of the room , and no one thought of look there . the murder ha written it with hi or her own blood . see thi smear where it ha trickl down the wall ! that dispos of the idea of suicid anyhow . whi wa that corner chosen to write it on ? I will tell you . see that candl on the mantelpiec . It wa lit at the time , and if it wa lit thi corner would be the brightest instead of the darkest portion of the wall. ” “ and what doe it mean now that you _have_ found it ? ” ask gregson in a depreciatori voic . “ mean ? whi , it mean that the writer wa go to put the femal name rachel , but wa disturb befor he or she had time to finish . you mark my word , when thi case come to be clear up you will find that a woman name rachel ha someth to do with it . It ’ s all veri well for you to laugh , mr. sherlock holm . you may be veri smart and clever , but the old hound is the best , when all is said and done. ” “ I realli beg your pardon ! ” said my companion , who had ruffl the littl man ’ s temper by burst into an explos of laughter . “ you certainli have the credit of be the first of us to find thi out , and , as you say , it bear everi mark of have been written by the other particip in last night ’ s mysteri . I have not had time to examin thi room yet , but with your permiss I shall do so now. ” As he spoke , he whip a tape measur and a larg round magnifi glass from hi pocket . with these two implement he trot noiselessli about the room , sometim stop , occasion kneel , and onc lie flat upon hi face . So engross wa he with hi occup that he appear to have forgotten our presenc , for he chatter away to himself under hi breath the whole time , keep up a run fire of exclam , groan , whistl , and littl cri suggest of encourag and of hope . As I watch him I wa irresist remind of a pure-blood well-train foxhound as it dash backward and forward through the covert , whine in it eager , until it come across the lost scent . for twenti minut or more he continu hi research , measur with the most exact care the distanc between mark which were entir invis to me , and occasion appli hi tape to the wall in an equal incomprehens manner . In one place he gather up veri care a littl pile of grey dust from the floor , and pack it away in an envelop . final , he examin with hi glass the word upon the wall , go over everi letter of it with the most minut exact . thi done , he appear to be satisfi , for he replac hi tape and hi glass in hi pocket . “ they say that geniu is an infinit capac for take pain , ” he remark with a smile . “ It ’ s a veri bad definit , but it doe appli to detect work. ” gregson and lestrad had watch the manoeuvr [ 9 ] of their amateur companion with consider curios and some contempt . they evid fail to appreci the fact , which I had begun to realiz , that sherlock holm ’ smallest action were all direct toward some definit and practic end . “ what do you think of it , sir ? ” they both ask . “ It would be rob you of the credit of the case if I wa to presum to help you , ” remark my friend . “ you are do so well now that it would be a piti for anyon to interfere. ” there wa a world of sarcasm in hi voic as he spoke . “ If you will let me know how your investig go , ” he continu , “ I shall be happi to give you ani help I can . In the meantim I should like to speak to the constabl who found the bodi . can you give me hi name and address ? ” lestrad glanc at hi note-book . “ john ranc , ” he said . “ He is off duti now . you will find him at 46 , audley court , kennington park gate. ” holm took a note of the address . “ come along , doctor , ” he said ; “ we shall go and look him up . I ’ ll tell you one thing which may help you in the case , ” he continu , turn to the two detect . “ there ha been murder done , and the murder wa a man . He wa more than six feet high , wa in the prime of life , had small feet for hi height , wore coars , square-to boot and smoke a trichinopoli cigar . He came here with hi victim in a four-wheel cab , which wa drawn by a hors with three old shoe and one new one on hi off fore leg . In all probabl the murder had a florid face , and the finger-nail of hi right hand were remark long . these are onli a few indic , but they may assist you. ” lestrad and gregson glanc at each other with an incredul smile . “ If thi man wa murder , how wa it done ? ” ask the former . “ poison , ” said sherlock holm curtli , and strode off . “ one other thing , lestrad , ” he ad , turn round at the door : “ ‘ rach , ’ is the german for ‘ reveng ; ’ so don ’ t lose your time look for miss rachel. ” with which parthian shot he walk away , leav the two rival open-mouth behind him . chapter IV . what john ranc had TO tell . IT wa one o ’ clock when we left No . 3 , lauriston garden . sherlock holm led me to the nearest telegraph offic , whenc he dispatch a long telegram . He then hail a cab , and order the driver to take us to the address given us by lestrad . “ there is noth like first hand evid , ” he remark ; “ as a matter of fact , my mind is entir made up upon the case , but still we may as well learn all that is to be learned. ” “ you amaz me , holm , ” said I . “ sure you are not as sure as you pretend to be of all those particular which you gave. ” “ there ’ s no room for a mistak , ” he answer . “ the veri first thing which I observ on arriv there wa that a cab had made two rut with it wheel close to the curb . now , up to last night , we have had no rain for a week , so that those wheel which left such a deep impress must have been there dure the night . there were the mark of the hors ’ s hoof , too , the outlin of one of which wa far more clearli cut than that of the other three , show that that wa a new shoe . sinc the cab wa there after the rain began , and wa not there at ani time dure the morn -- I have gregson ’ s word for that -- it follow that it must have been there dure the night , and , therefor , that it brought those two individu to the house. ” “ that seem simpl enough , ” said I ; “ but how about the other man ’ s height ? ” “ whi , the height of a man , in nine case out of ten , can be told from the length of hi stride . It is a simpl calcul enough , though there is no use my bore you with figur . I had thi fellow ’ s stride both on the clay outsid and on the dust within . then I had a way of check my calcul . when a man write on a wall , hi instinct lead him to write about the level of hi own eye . now that write wa just over six feet from the ground . It wa child ’ s play. ” “ and hi age ? ” I ask . “ well , if a man can stride four and a-half feet without the smallest effort , he can ’ t be quit in the sere and yellow . that wa the breadth of a puddl on the garden walk which he had evid walk across . patent-leath boot had gone round , and square-to had hop over . there is no mysteri about it at all . I am simpli appli to ordinari life a few of those precept of observ and deduct which I advoc in that articl . Is there anyth els that puzzl you ? ” “ the finger nail and the trichinopoli , ” I suggest . “ the write on the wall wa done with a man ’ s forefing dip in blood . My glass allow me to observ that the plaster wa slightli scratch in do it , which would not have been the case if the man ’ s nail had been trim . I gather up some scatter ash from the floor . It wa dark in colour and flakey -- such an ash as is onli made by a trichinopoli . I have made a special studi of cigar ash -- in fact , I have written a monograph upon the subject . I flatter myself that I can distinguish at a glanc the ash of ani known brand , either of cigar or of tobacco . It is just in such detail that the skill detect differ from the gregson and lestrad type. ” “ and the florid face ? ” I ask . “ Ah , that wa a more dare shot , though I have no doubt that I wa right . you must not ask me that at the present state of the affair. ” I pass my hand over my brow . “ My head is in a whirl , ” I remark ; “ the more one think of it the more mysteri it grow . how came these two men -- if there were two men -- into an empti hous ? what ha becom of the cabman who drove them ? how could one man compel anoth to take poison ? where did the blood come from ? what wa the object of the murder , sinc robberi had no part in it ? how came the woman ’ s ring there ? abov all , whi should the second man write up the german word rach befor decamp ? I confess that I can not see ani possibl way of reconcil all these facts. ” My companion smile approvingli . “ you sum up the difficulti of the situat succinctli and well , ” he said . “ there is much that is still obscur , though I have quit made up my mind on the main fact . As to poor lestrad ’ s discoveri it wa simpli a blind intend to put the polic upon a wrong track , by suggest social and secret societi . It wa not done by a german . the A , if you notic , wa print somewhat after the german fashion . now , a real german invari print in the latin charact , so that we may safe say that thi wa not written by one , but by a clumsi imit who overdid hi part . It wa simpli a ruse to divert inquiri into a wrong channel . I ’ m not go to tell you much more of the case , doctor . you know a conjuror get no credit when onc he ha explain hi trick , and if I show you too much of my method of work , you will come to the conclus that I am a veri ordinari individu after all. ” “ I shall never do that , ” I answer ; “ you have brought detect as near an exact scienc as it ever will be brought in thi world. ” My companion flush up with pleasur at my word , and the earnest way in which I utter them . I had alreadi observ that he wa as sensit to flatteri on the score of hi art as ani girl could be of her beauti . “ I ’ ll tell you one other thing , ” he said . “ patent leather [ 10 ] and square-to came in the same cab , and they walk down the pathway togeth as friendli as possibl -- arm-in-arm , in all probabl . when they got insid they walk up and down the room -- or rather , patent-leath stood still while square-to walk up and down . I could read all that in the dust ; and I could read that as he walk he grew more and more excit . that is shown by the increas length of hi stride . He wa talk all the while , and work himself up , no doubt , into a furi . then the tragedi occur . I ’ ve told you all I know myself now , for the rest is mere surmis and conjectur . We have a good work basi , howev , on which to start . We must hurri up , for I want to go to hall ’ s concert to hear norman neruda thi afternoon. ” thi convers had occur while our cab had been thread it way through a long success of dingi street and dreari by-way . In the dingiest and dreariest of them our driver suddenli came to a stand . “ that ’ s audley court in there , ” he said , point to a narrow slit in the line of dead-colour brick . “ you ’ ll find me here when you come back. ” audley court wa not an attract local . the narrow passag led us into a quadrangl pave with flag and line by sordid dwell . We pick our way among group of dirti children , and through line of discolour linen , until we came to number 46 , the door of which wa decor with a small slip of brass on which the name ranc wa engrav . On enquiri we found that the constabl wa in bed , and we were shown into a littl front parlour to await hi come . He appear present , look a littl irrit at be disturb in hi slumber . “ I made my report at the offic , ” he said . holm took a half-sovereign from hi pocket and play with it pensiv . “ We thought that we should like to hear it all from your own lip , ” he said . “ I shall be most happi to tell you anyth I can , ” the constabl answer with hi eye upon the littl golden disk . “ just let us hear it all in your own way as it occurred. ” ranc sat down on the horsehair sofa , and knit hi brow as though determin not to omit anyth in hi narr . “ I ’ ll tell it ye from the begin , ” he said . “ My time is from ten at night to six in the morn . At eleven there wa a fight at the ‘ white hart ’ ; but bar that all wa quiet enough on the beat . At one o ’ clock it began to rain , and I met harri murcher -- him who ha the holland grove beat -- and we stood togeth at the corner of henrietta street a-talkin ’ . present -- mayb about two or a littl after -- I thought I would take a look round and see that all wa right down the brixton road . It wa preciou dirti and lone . not a soul did I meet all the way down , though a cab or two went past me . I wa a strollin ’ down , thinkin ’ between ourselv how uncommon handi a four of gin hot would be , when suddenli the glint of a light caught my eye in the window of that same hous . now , I knew that them two hous in lauriston garden wa empti on account of him that own them who won ’ t have the drain seen to , though the veri last tenant what live in one of them die o ’ typhoid fever . I wa knock all in a heap therefor at see a light in the window , and I suspect as someth wa wrong . when I got to the door -- -- ” “ you stop , and then walk back to the garden gate , ” my companion interrupt . “ what did you do that for ? ” ranc gave a violent jump , and stare at sherlock holm with the utmost amaz upon hi featur . “ whi , that ’ s true , sir , ” he said ; “ though how you come to know it , heaven onli know . Ye see , when I got up to the door it wa so still and so lonesom , that I thought I ’ d be none the wors for some one with me . I ain ’ t afear of anyth on thi side o ’ the grave ; but I thought that mayb it wa him that die o ’ the typhoid inspect the drain what kill him . the thought gave me a kind o ’ turn , and I walk back to the gate to see if I could see murcher ’ s lantern , but there wasn ’ t no sign of him nor of anyon else. ” “ there wa no one in the street ? ” “ not a livin ’ soul , sir , nor as much as a dog . then I pull myself togeth and went back and push the door open . all wa quiet insid , so I went into the room where the light wa a-burnin ’ . there wa a candl flickerin ’ on the mantelpiec -- a red wax one -- and by it light I saw -- -- ” “ ye , I know all that you saw . you walk round the room sever time , and you knelt down by the bodi , and then you walk through and tri the kitchen door , and then -- -- ” john ranc sprang to hi feet with a frighten face and suspicion in hi eye . “ where wa you hid to see all that ? ” he cri . “ It seem to me that you know a deal more than you should. ” holm laugh and threw hi card across the tabl to the constabl . “ don ’ t get arrest me for the murder , ” he said . “ I am one of the hound and not the wolf ; mr. gregson or mr. lestrad will answer for that . Go on , though . what did you do next ? ” ranc resum hi seat , without howev lose hi mystifi express . “ I went back to the gate and sound my whistl . that brought murcher and two more to the spot. ” “ wa the street empti then ? ” “ well , it wa , as far as anybodi that could be of ani good goes. ” “ what do you mean ? ” the constabl ’ s featur broaden into a grin . “ I ’ ve seen mani a drunk chap in my time , ” he said , “ but never anyon so cryin ’ drunk as that cove . He wa at the gate when I came out , a-leanin ’ up agin the rail , and a-singin ’ at the pitch o ’ hi lung about columbin ’ s new-fangl banner , or some such stuff . He couldn ’ t stand , far less help. ” “ what sort of a man wa he ? ” ask sherlock holm . john ranc appear to be somewhat irrit at thi digress . “ He wa an uncommon drunk sort o ’ man , ” he said . “ He ’ d ha ’ found hisself in the station if we hadn ’ t been so took up. ” “ hi face -- hi dress -- didn ’ t you notic them ? ” holm broke in impati . “ I should think I did notic them , see that I had to prop him up -- me and murcher between us . He wa a long chap , with a red face , the lower part muffl round -- -- ” “ that will do , ” cri holm . “ what becam of him ? ” “ We ’ d enough to do without lookin ’ after him , ” the policeman said , in an aggriev voic . “ I ’ ll wager he found hi way home all right. ” “ how wa he dress ? ” “ A brown overcoat. ” “ had he a whip in hi hand ? ” “ A whip -- no. ” “ He must have left it behind , ” mutter my companion . “ you didn ’ t happen to see or hear a cab after that ? ” “ no. ” “ there ’ s a half-sovereign for you , ” my companion said , stand up and take hi hat . “ I am afraid , ranc , that you will never rise in the forc . that head of your should be for use as well as ornament . you might have gain your sergeant ’ s stripe last night . the man whom you held in your hand is the man who hold the clue of thi mysteri , and whom we are seek . there is no use of argu about it now ; I tell you that it is so . come along , doctor. ” We start off for the cab togeth , leav our inform incredul , but obvious uncomfort . “ the blunder fool , ” holm said , bitterli , as we drove back to our lodg . “ just to think of hi have such an incompar bit of good luck , and not take advantag of it. ” “ I am rather in the dark still . It is true that the descript of thi man talli with your idea of the second parti in thi mysteri . but whi should he come back to the hous after leav it ? that is not the way of criminals. ” “ the ring , man , the ring : that wa what he came back for . If we have no other way of catch him , we can alway bait our line with the ring . I shall have him , doctor -- I ’ ll lay you two to one that I have him . I must thank you for it all . I might not have gone but for you , and so have miss the finest studi I ever came across : a studi in scarlet , eh ? whi shouldn ’ t we use a littl art jargon . there ’ s the scarlet thread of murder run through the colourless skein of life , and our duti is to unravel it , and isol it , and expos everi inch of it . and now for lunch , and then for norman neruda . her attack and her bow are splendid . what ’ s that littl thing of chopin ’ s she play so magnific : tra-la-la-lira-lira-lay. ” lean back in the cab , thi amateur bloodhound carol away like a lark while I medit upon the many-sided of the human mind . chapter V. our advertis bring A visitor . our morn ’ s exert had been too much for my weak health , and I wa tire out in the afternoon . after holm ’ departur for the concert , I lay down upon the sofa and endeavour to get a coupl of hour ’ sleep . It wa a useless attempt . My mind had been too much excit by all that had occur , and the strangest fanci and surmis crowd into it . everi time that I close my eye I saw befor me the distort baboon-lik counten of the murder man . So sinist wa the impress which that face had produc upon me that I found it difficult to feel anyth but gratitud for him who had remov it owner from the world . If ever human featur bespok vice of the most malign type , they were certainli those of enoch J. drebber , of cleveland . still I recogn that justic must be done , and that the deprav of the victim wa no condon [ 11 ] in the eye of the law . the more I thought of it the more extraordinari did my companion ’ s hypothesi , that the man had been poison , appear . I rememb how he had snif hi lip , and had no doubt that he had detect someth which had given rise to the idea . then , again , if not poison , what had caus the man ’ s death , sinc there wa neither wound nor mark of strangul ? but , on the other hand , whose blood wa that which lay so thickli upon the floor ? there were no sign of a struggl , nor had the victim ani weapon with which he might have wound an antagonist . As long as all these question were unsolv , I felt that sleep would be no easi matter , either for holm or myself . hi quiet self-confid manner convinc me that he had alreadi form a theori which explain all the fact , though what it wa I could not for an instant conjectur . He wa veri late in return -- so late , that I knew that the concert could not have detain him all the time . dinner wa on the tabl befor he appear . “ It wa magnific , ” he said , as he took hi seat . “ Do you rememb what darwin say about music ? He claim that the power of produc and appreci it exist among the human race long befor the power of speech wa arriv at . perhap that is whi we are so subtli influenc by it . there are vagu memori in our soul of those misti centuri when the world wa in it childhood. ” “ that ’ s rather a broad idea , ” I remark . “ one ’ s idea must be as broad as natur if they are to interpret natur , ” he answer . “ what ’ s the matter ? you ’ re not look quit yourself . thi brixton road affair ha upset you. ” “ To tell the truth , it ha , ” I said . “ I ought to be more case-harden after my afghan experi . I saw my own comrad hack to piec at maiwand without lose my nerve. ” “ I can understand . there is a mysteri about thi which stimul the imagin ; where there is no imagin there is no horror . have you seen the even paper ? ” “ no. ” “ It give a fairli good account of the affair . It doe not mention the fact that when the man wa rais up , a woman ’ s wed ring fell upon the floor . It is just as well it doe not. ” “ whi ? ” “ look at thi advertis , ” he answer . “ I had one sent to everi paper thi morn immedi after the affair. ” He threw the paper across to me and I glanc at the place indic . It wa the first announc in the “ found ” column . “ In brixton road , thi morn , ” it ran , “ a plain gold wed ring , found in the roadway between the ‘ white hart ’ tavern and holland grove . appli dr. watson , 221b , baker street , between eight and nine thi evening. ” “ excus my use your name , ” he said . “ If I use my own some of these dunderhead would recogn it , and want to meddl in the affair. ” “ that is all right , ” I answer . “ but suppos anyon appli , I have no ring. ” “ Oh ye , you have , ” said he , hand me one . “ thi will do veri well . It is almost a facsimile. ” “ and who do you expect will answer thi advertisement. ” “ whi , the man in the brown coat -- our florid friend with the squar toe . If he doe not come himself he will send an accomplice. ” “ would he not consid it as too danger ? ” “ not at all . If my view of the case is correct , and I have everi reason to believ that it is , thi man would rather risk anyth than lose the ring . accord to my notion he drop it while stoop over drebber ’ s bodi , and did not miss it at the time . after leav the hous he discov hi loss and hurri back , but found the polic alreadi in possess , owe to hi own folli in leav the candl burn . He had to pretend to be drunk in order to allay the suspicion which might have been arous by hi appear at the gate . now put yourself in that man ’ s place . On think the matter over , it must have occur to him that it wa possibl that he had lost the ring in the road after leav the hous . what would he do , then ? He would eagerli look out for the even paper in the hope of see it among the articl found . hi eye , of cours , would light upon thi . He would be overjoy . whi should he fear a trap ? there would be no reason in hi eye whi the find of the ring should be connect with the murder . He would come . He will come . you shall see him within an hour ? ” “ and then ? ” I ask . “ Oh , you can leav me to deal with him then . have you ani arm ? ” “ I have my old servic revolv and a few cartridges. ” “ you had better clean it and load it . He will be a desper man , and though I shall take him unawar , it is as well to be readi for anything. ” I went to my bedroom and follow hi advic . when I return with the pistol the tabl had been clear , and holm wa engag in hi favourit occup of scrape upon hi violin . “ the plot thicken , ” he said , as I enter ; “ I have just had an answer to my american telegram . My view of the case is the correct one. ” “ and that is ? ” I ask eagerli . “ My fiddl would be the better for new string , ” he remark . “ put your pistol in your pocket . when the fellow come speak to him in an ordinari way . leav the rest to me . don ’ t frighten him by look at him too hard. ” “ It is eight o ’ clock now , ” I said , glanc at my watch . “ ye . He will probabl be here in a few minut . open the door slightli . that will do . now put the key on the insid . thank you ! thi is a queer old book I pick up at a stall yesterday -- ‘ De jure inter gent ’ -- publish in latin at lieg in the lowland , in 1642 . charl ’ head wa still firm on hi shoulder when thi littl brown-back volum wa struck off. ” “ who is the printer ? ” “ philipp de croy , whoever he may have been . On the fly-leaf , in veri fade ink , is written ‘ Ex libri guliolmi whyte. ’ I wonder who william whyte wa . some pragmat seventeenth centuri lawyer , I suppos . hi write ha a legal twist about it . here come our man , I think. ” As he spoke there wa a sharp ring at the bell . sherlock holm rose softli and move hi chair in the direct of the door . We heard the servant pass along the hall , and the sharp click of the latch as she open it . “ doe dr. watson live here ? ” ask a clear but rather harsh voic . We could not hear the servant ’ s repli , but the door close , and some one began to ascend the stair . the footfal wa an uncertain and shuffl one . A look of surpris pass over the face of my companion as he listen to it . It came slowli along the passag , and there wa a feebl tap at the door . “ come in , ” I cri . At my summon , instead of the man of violenc whom we expect , a veri old and wrinkl woman hobbl into the apart . she appear to be dazzl by the sudden blaze of light , and after drop a curtsey , she stood blink at us with her blear eye and fumbl in her pocket with nervou , shaki finger . I glanc at my companion , and hi face had assum such a disconsol express that it wa all I could do to keep my counten . the old crone drew out an even paper , and point at our advertis . “ It ’ s thi as ha brought me , good gentlemen , ” she said , drop anoth curtsey ; “ a gold wed ring in the brixton road . It belong to my girl salli , as wa marri onli thi time twelvemonth , which her husband is steward aboard a union boat , and what he ’ d say if he come ‘ ome and found her without her ring is more than I can think , he be short enough at the best o ’ time , but more especi when he ha the drink . If it pleas you , she went to the circu last night along with -- -- ” “ Is that her ring ? ” I ask . “ the lord be thank ! ” cri the old woman ; “ salli will be a glad woman thi night . that ’ s the ring. ” “ and what may your address be ? ” I inquir , take up a pencil . “ 13 , duncan street , houndsditch . A weari way from here. ” “ the brixton road doe not lie between ani circu and houndsditch , ” said sherlock holm sharpli . the old woman face round and look keenli at him from her littl red-rim eye . “ the gentleman ask me for _my_ address , ” she said . “ salli live in lodg at 3 , mayfield place , peckham. ” “ and your name is -- -- ? ” “ My name is sawyer -- her ’ s is denni , which tom denni marri her -- and a smart , clean lad , too , as long as he ’ s at sea , and no steward in the compani more thought of ; but when on shore , what with the women and what with liquor shop -- -- ” “ here is your ring , mrs. sawyer , ” I interrupt , in obedi to a sign from my companion ; “ it clearli belong to your daughter , and I am glad to be abl to restor it to the right owner. ” with mani mumbl bless and protest of gratitud the old crone pack it away in her pocket , and shuffl off down the stair . sherlock holm sprang to hi feet the moment that she wa gone and rush into hi room . He return in a few second envelop in an ulster and a cravat . “ I ’ ll follow her , ” he said , hurriedli ; “ she must be an accomplic , and will lead me to him . wait up for me. ” the hall door had hardli slam behind our visitor befor holm had descend the stair . look through the window I could see her walk feebli along the other side , while her pursuer dog her some littl distanc behind . “ either hi whole theori is incorrect , ” I thought to myself , “ or els he will be led now to the heart of the mystery. ” there wa no need for him to ask me to wait up for him , for I felt that sleep wa imposs until I heard the result of hi adventur . It wa close upon nine when he set out . I had no idea how long he might be , but I sat stolidli puf at my pipe and skip over the page of henri murger ’ s “ vie de bohème. ” ten o ’ clock pass , and I heard the footstep of the maid as they patter off to bed . eleven , and the more state tread of the landladi pass my door , bound for the same destin . It wa close upon twelv befor I heard the sharp sound of hi latch-key . the instant he enter I saw by hi face that he had not been success . amus and chagrin seem to be struggl for the masteri , until the former suddenli carri the day , and he burst into a hearti laugh . “ I wouldn ’ t have the scotland yarder know it for the world , ” he cri , drop into hi chair ; “ I have chaf them so much that they would never have let me hear the end of it . I can afford to laugh , becaus I know that I will be even with them in the long run. ” “ what is it then ? ” I ask . “ Oh , I don ’ t mind tell a stori against myself . that creatur had gone a littl way when she began to limp and show everi sign of be foot-sor . present she came to a halt , and hail a four-wheel which wa pass . I manag to be close to her so as to hear the address , but I need not have been so anxiou , for she sang it out loud enough to be heard at the other side of the street , ‘ drive to 13 , duncan street , houndsditch , ’ she cri . thi begin to look genuin , I thought , and have seen her safe insid , I perch myself behind . that ’ s an art which everi detect should be an expert at . well , away we rattl , and never drew rein until we reach the street in question . I hop off befor we came to the door , and stroll down the street in an easi , loung way . I saw the cab pull up . the driver jump down , and I saw him open the door and stand expectantli . noth came out though . when I reach him he wa grope about frantic in the empti cab , and give vent to the finest assort collect of oath that ever I listen to . there wa no sign or trace of hi passeng , and I fear it will be some time befor he get hi fare . On inquir at number 13 we found that the hous belong to a respect paperhang , name keswick , and that no one of the name either of sawyer or denni had ever been heard of there. ” “ you don ’ t mean to say , ” I cri , in amaz , “ that that totter , feebl old woman wa abl to get out of the cab while it wa in motion , without either you or the driver see her ? ” “ old woman be damn ! ” said sherlock holm , sharpli . “ We were the old women to be so taken in . It must have been a young man , and an activ one , too , besid be an incompar actor . the get-up wa inimit . He saw that he wa follow , no doubt , and use thi mean of give me the slip . It show that the man we are after is not as lone as I imagin he wa , but ha friend who are readi to risk someth for him . now , doctor , you are look done-up . take my advic and turn in. ” I wa certainli feel veri weari , so I obey hi injunct . I left holm seat in front of the smoulder fire , and long into the watch of the night I heard the low , melancholi wail of hi violin , and knew that he wa still ponder over the strang problem which he had set himself to unravel . chapter VI . tobia gregson show what HE can DO . the paper next day were full of the “ brixton mysteri , ” as they term it . each had a long account of the affair , and some had leader upon it in addit . there wa some inform in them which wa new to me . I still retain in my scrap-book numer clip and extract bear upon the case . here is a condens of a few of them : -- the _daili telegraph_ remark that in the histori of crime there had seldom been a tragedi which present stranger featur . the german name of the victim , the absenc of all other motiv , and the sinist inscript on the wall , all point to it perpetr by polit refuge and revolutionist . the socialist had mani branch in america , and the deceas had , no doubt , infring their unwritten law , and been track down by them . after allud airili to the vehmgericht , aqua tofana , carbonari , the marchio de brinvilli , the darwinian theori , the principl of malthu , and the ratcliff highway murder , the articl conclud by admonish the govern and advoc a closer watch over foreign in england . the _standard_ comment upon the fact that lawless outrag of the sort usual occur under a liber administr . they aros from the unsettl of the mind of the mass , and the consequ weaken of all author . the deceas wa an american gentleman who had been resid for some week in the metropoli . He had stay at the boarding-hous of madam charpenti , in torquay terrac , camberwel . He wa accompani in hi travel by hi privat secretari , mr. joseph stangerson . the two bade adieu to their landladi upon tuesday , the 4th inst. , and depart to euston station with the avow intent of catch the liverpool express . they were afterward seen togeth upon the platform . noth more is known of them until mr. drebber ’ s bodi wa , as record , discov in an empti hous in the brixton road , mani mile from euston . how he came there , or how he met hi fate , are question which are still involv in mysteri . noth is known of the whereabout of stangerson . We are glad to learn that mr. lestrad and mr. gregson , of scotland yard , are both engag upon the case , and it is confid anticip that these well-known offic will speedili throw light upon the matter . the _daili news_ observ that there wa no doubt as to the crime be a polit one . the despot and hatr of liber which anim the continent govern had had the effect of drive to our shore a number of men who might have made excel citizen were they not sour by the recollect of all that they had undergon . among these men there wa a stringent code of honour , ani infring of which wa punish by death . everi effort should be made to find the secretari , stangerson , and to ascertain some particular of the habit of the deceas . A great step had been gain by the discoveri of the address of the hous at which he had board -- a result which wa entir due to the acut and energi of mr. gregson of scotland yard . sherlock holm and I read these notic over togeth at breakfast , and they appear to afford him consider amus . “ I told you that , whatev happen , lestrad and gregson would be sure to score. ” “ that depend on how it turn out. ” “ Oh , bless you , it doesn ’ t matter in the least . If the man is caught , it will be _on account_ of their exert ; if he escap , it will be _in spite_ of their exert . It ’ s head I win and tail you lose . whatev they do , they will have follow . ‘ Un sot trouv toujour un plu sot qui l ’ admire. ’ ” “ what on earth is thi ? ” I cri , for at thi moment there came the patter of mani step in the hall and on the stair , accompani by audibl express of disgust upon the part of our landladi . “ It ’ s the baker street divis of the detect polic forc , ” said my companion , grave ; and as he spoke there rush into the room half a dozen of the dirtiest and most rag street arab that ever I clap eye on . “ ‘ tention ! ” cri holm , in a sharp tone , and the six dirti littl scoundrel stood in a line like so mani disreput statuett . “ In futur you shall send up wiggin alon to report , and the rest of you must wait in the street . have you found it , wiggin ? ” “ No , sir , we hain ’ t , ” said one of the youth . “ I hardli expect you would . you must keep on until you do . here are your wages. ” [ 13 ] He hand each of them a shill . “ now , off you go , and come back with a better report next time. ” He wave hi hand , and they scamper away downstair like so mani rat , and we heard their shrill voic next moment in the street . “ there ’ s more work to be got out of one of those littl beggar than out of a dozen of the forc , ” holm remark . “ the mere sight of an official-look person seal men ’ s lip . these youngster , howev , go everywher and hear everyth . they are as sharp as needl , too ; all they want is organisation. ” “ Is it on thi brixton case that you are employ them ? ” I ask . “ ye ; there is a point which I wish to ascertain . It is mere a matter of time . hullo ! we are go to hear some news now with a vengeanc ! here is gregson come down the road with beatitud written upon everi featur of hi face . bound for us , I know . ye , he is stop . there he is ! ” there wa a violent peal at the bell , and in a few second the fair-hair detect came up the stair , three step at a time , and burst into our sitting-room . “ My dear fellow , ” he cri , wring holm ’ unrespons hand , “ congratul me ! I have made the whole thing as clear as day. ” A shade of anxieti seem to me to cross my companion ’ s express face . “ Do you mean that you are on the right track ? ” he ask . “ the right track ! whi , sir , we have the man under lock and key. ” “ and hi name is ? ” “ arthur charpenti , sub-lieuten in her majesti ’ s navi , ” cri gregson , pompous , rub hi fat hand and inflat hi chest . sherlock holm gave a sigh of relief , and relax into a smile . “ take a seat , and tri one of these cigar , ” he said . “ We are anxiou to know how you manag it . will you have some whiskey and water ? ” “ I don ’ t mind if I do , ” the detect answer . “ the tremend exert which I have gone through dure the last day or two have worn me out . not so much bodili exert , you understand , as the strain upon the mind . you will appreci that , mr. sherlock holm , for we are both brain-workers. ” “ you do me too much honour , ” said holm , grave . “ let us hear how you arriv at thi most gratifi result. ” the detect seat himself in the arm-chair , and puf complac at hi cigar . then suddenli he slap hi thigh in a paroxysm of amus . “ the fun of it is , ” he cri , “ that that fool lestrad , who think himself so smart , ha gone off upon the wrong track altogeth . He is after the secretari stangerson , who had no more to do with the crime than the babe unborn . I have no doubt that he ha caught him by thi time. ” the idea tickl gregson so much that he laugh until he choke . “ and how did you get your clue ? ” “ Ah , I ’ ll tell you all about it . Of cours , doctor watson , thi is strictli between ourselv . the first difficulti which we had to contend with wa the find of thi american ’ s anteced . some peopl would have wait until their advertis were answer , or until parti came forward and volunt inform . that is not tobia gregson ’ s way of go to work . you rememb the hat besid the dead man ? ” “ ye , ” said holm ; “ by john underwood and son , 129 , camberwel road. ” gregson look quit crest-fallen . “ I had no idea that you notic that , ” he said . “ have you been there ? ” “ no. ” “ Ha ! ” cri gregson , in a reliev voic ; “ you should never neglect a chanc , howev small it may seem. ” “ To a great mind , noth is littl , ” remark holm , sententi . “ well , I went to underwood , and ask him if he had sold a hat of that size and descript . He look over hi book , and came on it at onc . He had sent the hat to a mr. drebber , resid at charpenti ’ s board establish , torquay terrac . thu I got at hi address. ” “ smart -- veri smart ! ” murmur sherlock holm . “ I next call upon madam charpenti , ” continu the detect . “ I found her veri pale and distress . her daughter wa in the room , too -- an uncommonli fine girl she is , too ; she wa look red about the eye and her lip trembl as I spoke to her . that didn ’ t escap my notic . I began to smell a rat . you know the feel , mr. sherlock holm , when you come upon the right scent -- a kind of thrill in your nerv . ‘ have you heard of the mysteri death of your late boarder mr. enoch J. drebber , of cleveland ? ’ I ask . “ the mother nod . she didn ’ t seem abl to get out a word . the daughter burst into tear . I felt more than ever that these peopl knew someth of the matter . “ ‘ At what o ’ clock did mr. drebber leav your hous for the train ? ’ I ask . “ ‘ At eight o ’ clock , ’ she said , gulp in her throat to keep down her agit . ‘ hi secretari , mr. stangerson , said that there were two train -- one at 9.15 and one at 11 . He wa to catch the first . [ 14 ] “ ‘ and wa that the last which you saw of him ? ’ “ A terribl chang came over the woman ’ s face as I ask the question . her featur turn perfectli livid . It wa some second befor she could get out the singl word ‘ ye ’ -- and when it did come it wa in a huski unnatur tone . “ there wa silenc for a moment , and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voic . “ ‘ No good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ’ she said . ‘ let us be frank with thi gentleman . We _did_ see mr. drebber again. ’ “ ‘ god forgiv you ! ’ cri madam charpenti , throw up her hand and sink back in her chair . ‘ you have murder your brother. ’ “ ‘ arthur would rather that we spoke the truth , ’ the girl answer firmli . “ ‘ you had best tell me all about it now , ’ I said . ‘ half-confid are wors than none . besid , you do not know how much we know of it. ’ “ ‘ On your head be it , alic ! ’ cri her mother ; and then , turn to me , ‘ I will tell you all , sir . Do not imagin that my agit on behalf of my son aris from ani fear lest he should have had a hand in thi terribl affair . He is utterli innoc of it . My dread is , howev , that in your eye and in the eye of other he may appear to be compromis . that howev is sure imposs . hi high charact , hi profess , hi anteced would all forbid it. ’ “ ‘ your best way is to make a clean breast of the fact , ’ I answer . ‘ depend upon it , if your son is innoc he will be none the worse. ’ “ ‘ perhap , alic , you had better leav us togeth , ’ she said , and her daughter withdrew . ‘ now , sir , ’ she continu , ‘ I had no intent of tell you all thi , but sinc my poor daughter ha disclos it I have no altern . have onc decid to speak , I will tell you all without omit ani particular. ’ “ ‘ It is your wisest cours , ’ said I . “ ‘ Mr . drebber ha been with us nearli three week . He and hi secretari , mr. stangerson , had been travel on the contin . I notic a “ copenhagen ” label upon each of their trunk , show that that had been their last stop place . stangerson wa a quiet reserv man , but hi employ , I am sorri to say , wa far otherwis . He wa coars in hi habit and brutish in hi way . the veri night of hi arriv he becam veri much the wors for drink , and , inde , after twelv o ’ clock in the day he could hardli ever be said to be sober . hi manner toward the maid-serv were disgustingli free and familiar . worst of all , he speedili assum the same attitud toward my daughter , alic , and spoke to her more than onc in a way which , fortun , she is too innoc to understand . On one occas he actual seiz her in hi arm and embrac her -- an outrag which caus hi own secretari to reproach him for hi unmanli conduct. ’ “ ‘ but whi did you stand all thi , ’ I ask . ‘ I suppos that you can get rid of your boarder when you wish. ’ “ mr . charpenti blush at my pertin question . ‘ would to god that I had given him notic on the veri day that he came , ’ she said . ‘ but it wa a sore temptat . they were pay a pound a day each -- fourteen pound a week , and thi is the slack season . I am a widow , and my boy in the navi ha cost me much . I grudg to lose the money . I act for the best . thi last wa too much , howev , and I gave him notic to leav on account of it . that wa the reason of hi going. ’ “ ‘ well ? ’ “ ‘ My heart grew light when I saw him drive away . My son is on leav just now , but I did not tell him anyth of all thi , for hi temper is violent , and he is passion fond of hi sister . when I close the door behind them a load seem to be lift from my mind . ala , in less than an hour there wa a ring at the bell , and I learn that mr. drebber had return . He wa much excit , and evid the wors for drink . He forc hi way into the room , where I wa sit with my daughter , and made some incoher remark about have miss hi train . He then turn to alic , and befor my veri face , propos to her that she should fli with him . “ you are of age , ” he said , “ and there is no law to stop you . I have money enough and to spare . never mind the old girl here , but come along with me now straight away . you shall live like a princess. ” poor alic wa so frighten that she shrunk away from him , but he caught her by the wrist and endeavour to draw her toward the door . I scream , and at that moment my son arthur came into the room . what happen then I do not know . I heard oath and the confus sound of a scuffl . I wa too terrifi to rais my head . when I did look up I saw arthur stand in the doorway laugh , with a stick in hi hand . “ I don ’ t think that fine fellow will troubl us again , ” he said . “ I will just go after him and see what he doe with himself. ” with those word he took hi hat and start off down the street . the next morn we heard of mr. drebber ’ s mysteri death. ’ “ thi statement came from mrs. charpenti ’ s lip with mani gasp and paus . At time she spoke so low that I could hardli catch the word . I made shorthand note of all that she said , howev , so that there should be no possibl of a mistake. ” “ It ’ s quit excit , ” said sherlock holm , with a yawn . “ what happen next ? ” “ when mrs. charpenti paus , ” the detect continu , “ I saw that the whole case hung upon one point . fix her with my eye in a way which I alway found effect with women , I ask her at what hour her son return . “ ‘ I do not know , ’ she answer . “ ‘ not know ? ’ “ ‘ No ; he ha a latch-key , and he let himself in. ’ “ ‘ after you went to bed ? ’ “ ‘ yes. ’ “ ‘ when did you go to bed ? ’ “ ‘ about eleven. ’ “ ‘ So your son wa gone at least two hour ? ’ “ ‘ yes. ’ “ ‘ possibl four or five ? ’ “ ‘ yes. ’ “ ‘ what wa he do dure that time ? ’ “ ‘ I do not know , ’ she answer , turn white to her veri lip . “ Of cours after that there wa noth more to be done . I found out where lieuten charpenti wa , took two offic with me , and arrest him . when I touch him on the shoulder and warn him to come quietli with us , he answer us as bold as brass , ‘ I suppos you are arrest me for be concern in the death of that scoundrel drebber , ’ he said . We had said noth to him about it , so that hi allud to it had a most suspici aspect. ” “ veri , ” said holm . “ He still carri the heavi stick which the mother describ him as have with him when he follow drebber . It wa a stout oak cudgel. ” “ what is your theori , then ? ” “ well , my theori is that he follow drebber as far as the brixton road . when there , a fresh alterc aros between them , in the cours of which drebber receiv a blow from the stick , in the pit of the stomach , perhap , which kill him without leav ani mark . the night wa so wet that no one wa about , so charpenti drag the bodi of hi victim into the empti hous . As to the candl , and the blood , and the write on the wall , and the ring , they may all be so mani trick to throw the polic on to the wrong scent. ” “ well done ! ” said holm in an encourag voic . “ realli , gregson , you are get along . We shall make someth of you yet. ” “ I flatter myself that I have manag it rather neatli , ” the detect answer proudli . “ the young man volunt a statement , in which he said that after follow drebber some time , the latter perceiv him , and took a cab in order to get away from him . On hi way home he met an old shipmat , and took a long walk with him . On be ask where thi old shipmat live , he wa unabl to give ani satisfactori repli . I think the whole case fit togeth uncommonli well . what amus me is to think of lestrad , who had start off upon the wrong scent . I am afraid he won ’ t make much of [ 15 ] whi , by jove , here ’ s the veri man himself ! ” It wa inde lestrad , who had ascend the stair while we were talk , and who now enter the room . the assur and jaunti which gener mark hi demeanour and dress were , howev , want . hi face wa disturb and troubl , while hi cloth were disarrang and untidi . He had evid come with the intent of consult with sherlock holm , for on perceiv hi colleagu he appear to be embarrass and put out . He stood in the centr of the room , fumbl nervous with hi hat and uncertain what to do . “ thi is a most extraordinari case , ” he said at last -- “ a most incomprehens affair. ” “ Ah , you find it so , mr. lestrad ! ” cri gregson , triumphantli . “ I thought you would come to that conclus . have you manag to find the secretari , mr. joseph stangerson ? ” “ the secretari , mr. joseph stangerson , ” said lestrad grave , “ wa murder at halliday ’ s privat hotel about six o ’ clock thi morning. ” chapter vii . light IN the dark . the intellig with which lestrad greet us wa so moment and so unexpect , that we were all three fairli dumfound . gregson sprang out of hi chair and upset the remaind of hi whiskey and water . I stare in silenc at sherlock holm , whose lip were compress and hi brow drawn down over hi eye . “ stangerson too ! ” he mutter . “ the plot thickens. ” “ It wa quit thick enough befor , ” grumbl lestrad , take a chair . “ I seem to have drop into a sort of council of war. ” “ are you -- are you sure of thi piec of intellig ? ” stammer gregson . “ I have just come from hi room , ” said lestrad . “ I wa the first to discov what had occurred. ” “ We have been hear gregson ’ s view of the matter , ” holm observ . “ would you mind let us know what you have seen and done ? ” “ I have no object , ” lestrad answer , seat himself . “ I freeli confess that I wa of the opinion that stangerson wa concern in the death of drebber . thi fresh develop ha shown me that I wa complet mistaken . full of the one idea , I set myself to find out what had becom of the secretari . they had been seen togeth at euston station about half-past eight on the even of the third . At two in the morn drebber had been found in the brixton road . the question which confront me wa to find out how stangerson had been employ between 8.30 and the time of the crime , and what had becom of him afterward . I telegraph to liverpool , give a descript of the man , and warn them to keep a watch upon the american boat . I then set to work call upon all the hotel and lodging-hous in the vicin of euston . you see , I argu that if drebber and hi companion had becom separ , the natur cours for the latter would be to put up somewher in the vicin for the night , and then to hang about the station again next morning. ” “ they would be like to agre on some meeting-plac beforehand , ” remark holm . “ So it prove . I spent the whole of yesterday even in make enquiri entir without avail . thi morn I began veri earli , and at eight o ’ clock I reach halliday ’ s privat hotel , in littl georg street . On my enquiri as to whether a mr. stangerson wa live there , they at onc answer me in the affirm . “ ‘ No doubt you are the gentleman whom he wa expect , ’ they said . ‘ He ha been wait for a gentleman for two days. ’ “ ‘ where is he now ? ’ I ask . “ ‘ He is upstair in bed . He wish to be call at nine. ’ “ ‘ I will go up and see him at onc , ’ I said . “ It seem to me that my sudden appear might shake hi nerv and lead him to say someth unguard . the boot volunt to show me the room : it wa on the second floor , and there wa a small corridor lead up to it . the boot point out the door to me , and wa about to go downstair again when I saw someth that made me feel sickish , in spite of my twenti year ’ experi . from under the door there curl a littl red ribbon of blood , which had meander across the passag and form a littl pool along the skirt at the other side . I gave a cri , which brought the boot back . He nearli faint when he saw it . the door wa lock on the insid , but we put our shoulder to it , and knock it in . the window of the room wa open , and besid the window , all huddl up , lay the bodi of a man in hi nightdress . He wa quit dead , and had been for some time , for hi limb were rigid and cold . when we turn him over , the boot recogn him at onc as be the same gentleman who had engag the room under the name of joseph stangerson . the caus of death wa a deep stab in the left side , which must have penetr the heart . and now come the strangest part of the affair . what do you suppos wa abov the murder man ? ” I felt a creep of the flesh , and a presenti of come horror , even befor sherlock holm answer . “ the word rach , written in letter of blood , ” he said . “ that wa it , ” said lestrad , in an awe-struck voic ; and we were all silent for a while . there wa someth so method and so incomprehens about the deed of thi unknown assassin , that it impart a fresh ghastli to hi crime . My nerv , which were steadi enough on the field of battl tingl as I thought of it . “ the man wa seen , ” continu lestrad . “ A milk boy , pass on hi way to the dairi , happen to walk down the lane which lead from the mew at the back of the hotel . He notic that a ladder , which usual lay there , wa rais against one of the window of the second floor , which wa wide open . after pass , he look back and saw a man descend the ladder . He came down so quietli and openli that the boy imagin him to be some carpent or joiner at work in the hotel . He took no particular notic of him , beyond think in hi own mind that it wa earli for him to be at work . He ha an impress that the man wa tall , had a reddish face , and wa dress in a long , brownish coat . He must have stay in the room some littl time after the murder , for we found blood-stain water in the basin , where he had wash hi hand , and mark on the sheet where he had deliber wipe hi knife. ” I glanc at holm on hear the descript of the murder , which talli so exactli with hi own . there wa , howev , no trace of exult or satisfact upon hi face . “ did you find noth in the room which could furnish a clue to the murder ? ” he ask . “ noth . stangerson had drebber ’ s purs in hi pocket , but it seem that thi wa usual , as he did all the pay . there wa eighti odd pound in it , but noth had been taken . whatev the motiv of these extraordinari crime , robberi is certainli not one of them . there were no paper or memoranda in the murder man ’ s pocket , except a singl telegram , date from cleveland about a month ago , and contain the word , ‘ J . H. is in europe. ’ there wa no name append to thi message. ” “ and there wa noth els ? ” holm ask . “ noth of ani import . the man ’ s novel , with which he had read himself to sleep wa lie upon the bed , and hi pipe wa on a chair besid him . there wa a glass of water on the tabl , and on the window-sil a small chip ointment box contain a coupl of pills. ” sherlock holm sprang from hi chair with an exclam of delight . “ the last link , ” he cri , exultantli . “ My case is complete. ” the two detect stare at him in amaz . “ I have now in my hand , ” my companion said , confid , “ all the thread which have form such a tangl . there are , of cours , detail to be fill in , but I am as certain of all the main fact , from the time that drebber part from stangerson at the station , up to the discoveri of the bodi of the latter , as if I had seen them with my own eye . I will give you a proof of my knowledg . could you lay your hand upon those pill ? ” “ I have them , ” said lestrad , produc a small white box ; “ I took them and the purs and the telegram , intend to have them put in a place of safeti at the polic station . It wa the merest chanc my take these pill , for I am bound to say that I do not attach ani import to them. ” “ give them here , ” said holm . “ now , doctor , ” turn to me , “ are those ordinari pill ? ” they certainli were not . they were of a pearli grey colour , small , round , and almost transpar against the light . “ from their light and transpar , I should imagin that they are solubl in water , ” I remark . “ precis so , ” answer holm . “ now would you mind go down and fetch that poor littl devil of a terrier which ha been bad so long , and which the landladi want you to put out of it pain yesterday. ” I went downstair and carri the dog upstair in my arm . It ’ s labour breath and glaze eye show that it wa not far from it end . inde , it snow-whit muzzl proclaim that it had alreadi exceed the usual term of canin exist . I place it upon a cushion on the rug . “ I will now cut one of these pill in two , ” said holm , and draw hi penknif he suit the action to the word . “ one half we return into the box for futur purpos . the other half I will place in thi wine glass , in which is a teaspoon of water . you perceiv that our friend , the doctor , is right , and that it readili dissolves. ” “ thi may be veri interest , ” said lestrad , in the injur tone of one who suspect that he is be laugh at , “ I can not see , howev , what it ha to do with the death of mr. joseph stangerson. ” “ patienc , my friend , patienc ! you will find in time that it ha everyth to do with it . I shall now add a littl milk to make the mixtur palat , and on present it to the dog we find that he lap it up readili enough. ” As he spoke he turn the content of the wine glass into a saucer and place it in front of the terrier , who speedili lick it dri . sherlock holm ’ earnest demeanour had so far convinc us that we all sat in silenc , watch the anim intent , and expect some startl effect . none such appear , howev . the dog continu to lie stretch upon tho [ 16 ] cushion , breath in a labour way , but appar neither the better nor the wors for it draught . holm had taken out hi watch , and as minut follow minut without result , an express of the utmost chagrin and disappoint appear upon hi featur . He gnaw hi lip , drum hi finger upon the tabl , and show everi other symptom of acut impati . So great wa hi emot , that I felt sincer sorri for him , while the two detect smile deris , by no mean displeas at thi check which he had met . “ It can ’ t be a coincid , ” he cri , at last spring from hi chair and pace wildli up and down the room ; “ it is imposs that it should be a mere coincid . the veri pill which I suspect in the case of drebber are actual found after the death of stangerson . and yet they are inert . what can it mean ? sure my whole chain of reason can not have been fals . It is imposs ! and yet thi wretch dog is none the wors . Ah , I have it ! I have it ! ” with a perfect shriek of delight he rush to the box , cut the other pill in two , dissolv it , ad milk , and present it to the terrier . the unfortun creatur ’ s tongu seem hardli to have been moisten in it befor it gave a convuls shiver in everi limb , and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightn . sherlock holm drew a long breath , and wipe the perspir from hi forehead . “ I should have more faith , ” he said ; “ I ought to know by thi time that when a fact appear to be oppos to a long train of deduct , it invari prove to be capabl of bear some other interpret . Of the two pill in that box one wa of the most deadli poison , and the other wa entir harmless . I ought to have known that befor ever I saw the box at all. ” thi last statement appear to me to be so startl , that I could hardli believ that he wa in hi sober sens . there wa the dead dog , howev , to prove that hi conjectur had been correct . It seem to me that the mist in my own mind were gradual clear away , and I began to have a dim , vagu percept of the truth . “ all thi seem strang to you , ” continu holm , “ becaus you fail at the begin of the inquiri to grasp the import of the singl real clue which wa present to you . I had the good fortun to seiz upon that , and everyth which ha occur sinc then ha serv to confirm my origin supposit , and , inde , wa the logic sequenc of it . henc thing which have perplex you and made the case more obscur , have serv to enlighten me and to strengthen my conclus . It is a mistak to confound strang with mysteri . the most commonplac crime is often the most mysteri becaus it present no new or special featur from which deduct may be drawn . thi murder would have been infinit more difficult to unravel had the bodi of the victim been simpli found lie in the roadway without ani of those _outré_ and sensat accompani which have render it remark . these strang detail , far from make the case more difficult , have realli had the effect of make it less so. ” mr. gregson , who had listen to thi address with consider impati , could contain himself no longer . “ look here , mr. sherlock holm , ” he said , “ we are all readi to acknowledg that you are a smart man , and that you have your own method of work . We want someth more than mere theori and preach now , though . It is a case of take the man . I have made my case out , and it seem I wa wrong . young charpenti could not have been engag in thi second affair . lestrad went after hi man , stangerson , and it appear that he wa wrong too . you have thrown out hint here , and hint there , and seem to know more than we do , but the time ha come when we feel that we have a right to ask you straight how much you do know of the busi . can you name the man who did it ? ” “ I can not help feel that gregson is right , sir , ” remark lestrad . “ We have both tri , and we have both fail . you have remark more than onc sinc I have been in the room that you had all the evid which you requir . sure you will not withhold it ani longer. ” “ ani delay in arrest the assassin , ” I observ , “ might give him time to perpetr some fresh atrocity. ” thu press by us all , holm show sign of irresolut . He continu to walk up and down the room with hi head sunk on hi chest and hi brow drawn down , as wa hi habit when lost in thought . “ there will be no more murder , ” he said at last , stop abruptli and face us . “ you can put that consider out of the question . you have ask me if I know the name of the assassin . I do . the mere know of hi name is a small thing , howev , compar with the power of lay our hand upon him . thi I expect veri shortli to do . I have good hope of manag it through my own arrang ; but it is a thing which need delic handl , for we have a shrewd and desper man to deal with , who is support , as I have had occas to prove , by anoth who is as clever as himself . As long as thi man ha no idea that anyon can have a clue there is some chanc of secur him ; but if he had the slightest suspicion , he would chang hi name , and vanish in an instant among the four million inhabit of thi great citi . without mean to hurt either of your feel , I am bound to say that I consid these men to be more than a match for the offici forc , and that is whi I have not ask your assist . If I fail I shall , of cours , incur all the blame due to thi omiss ; but that I am prepar for . At present I am readi to promis that the instant that I can commun with you without endang my own combin , I shall do so. ” gregson and lestrad seem to be far from satisfi by thi assur , or by the depreci allus to the detect polic . the former had flush up to the root of hi flaxen hair , while the other ’ s beadi eye glisten with curios and resent . neither of them had time to speak , howev , befor there wa a tap at the door , and the spokesman of the street arab , young wiggin , introduc hi insignific and unsavouri person . “ pleas , sir , ” he said , touch hi forelock , “ I have the cab downstairs. ” “ good boy , ” said holm , blandli . “ whi don ’ t you introduc thi pattern at scotland yard ? ” he continu , take a pair of steel handcuff from a drawer . “ see how beauti the spring work . they fasten in an instant. ” “ the old pattern is good enough , ” remark lestrad , “ if we can onli find the man to put them on. ” “ veri good , veri good , ” said holm , smile . “ the cabman may as well help me with my box . just ask him to step up , wiggins. ” I wa surpris to find my companion speak as though he were about to set out on a journey , sinc he had not said anyth to me about it . there wa a small portmanteau in the room , and thi he pull out and began to strap . He wa busili engag at it when the cabman enter the room . “ just give me a help with thi buckl , cabman , ” he said , kneel over hi task , and never turn hi head . the fellow came forward with a somewhat sullen , defiant air , and put down hi hand to assist . At that instant there wa a sharp click , the jangl of metal , and sherlock holm sprang to hi feet again . “ gentlemen , ” he cri , with flash eye , “ let me introduc you to mr. jefferson hope , the murder of enoch drebber and of joseph stangerson. ” the whole thing occur in a moment -- so quickli that I had no time to realiz it . I have a vivid recollect of that instant , of holm ’ triumphant express and the ring of hi voic , of the cabman ’ s daze , savag face , as he glare at the glitter handcuff , which had appear as if by magic upon hi wrist . for a second or two we might have been a group of statu . then , with an inarticul roar of furi , the prison wrench himself free from holm ’ s grasp , and hurl himself through the window . woodwork and glass gave way befor him ; but befor he got quit through , gregson , lestrad , and holm sprang upon him like so mani staghound . He wa drag back into the room , and then commenc a terrif conflict . So power and so fierc wa he , that the four of us were shaken off again and again . He appear to have the convuls strength of a man in an epilept fit . hi face and hand were terribl mangl by hi passag through the glass , but loss of blood had no effect in diminish hi resist . It wa not until lestrad succeed in get hi hand insid hi neckcloth and half-strangl him that we made him realiz that hi struggl were of no avail ; and even then we felt no secur until we had pinion hi feet as well as hi hand . that done , we rose to our feet breathless and pant . “ We have hi cab , ” said sherlock holm . “ It will serv to take him to scotland yard . and now , gentlemen , ” he continu , with a pleasant smile , “ we have reach the end of our littl mysteri . you are veri welcom to put ani question that you like to me now , and there is no danger that I will refus to answer them. ” part II . _the countri of the saints._ chapter I . ON the great alkali plain . IN the central portion of the great north american contin there lie an arid and repuls desert , which for mani a long year serv as a barrier against the advanc of civilis . from the sierra nevada to nebraska , and from the yellowston river in the north to the colorado upon the south , is a region of desol and silenc . nor is natur alway in one mood throughout thi grim district . It compris snow-cap and lofti mountain , and dark and gloomi valley . there are swift-flow river which dash through jag cañon ; and there are enorm plain , which in winter are white with snow , and in summer are grey with the salin alkali dust . they all preserv , howev , the common characterist of barren , inhospit , and miseri . there are no inhabit of thi land of despair . A band of pawne or of blackfeet may occasion travers it in order to reach other hunting-ground , but the hardiest of the brave are glad to lose sight of those awesom plain , and to find themselv onc more upon their prairi . the coyot skulk among the scrub , the buzzard flap heavili through the air , and the clumsi grizzli bear lumber through the dark ravin , and pick up such susten as it can amongst the rock . these are the sole dweller in the wilder . In the whole world there can be no more dreari view than that from the northern slope of the sierra blanco . As far as the eye can reach stretch the great flat plain-land , all dust over with patch of alkali , and intersect by clump of the dwarfish chaparr bush . On the extrem verg of the horizon lie a long chain of mountain peak , with their rug summit fleck with snow . In thi great stretch of countri there is no sign of life , nor of anyth appertain to life . there is no bird in the steel-blu heaven , no movement upon the dull , grey earth -- abov all , there is absolut silenc . listen as one may , there is no shadow of a sound in all that mighti wilder ; noth but silenc -- complet and heart-subdu silenc . It ha been said there is noth appertain to life upon the broad plain . that is hardli true . look down from the sierra blanco , one see a pathway trace out across the desert , which wind away and is lost in the extrem distanc . It is rut with wheel and trodden down by the feet of mani adventur . here and there there are scatter white object which glisten in the sun , and stand out against the dull deposit of alkali . approach , and examin them ! they are bone : some larg and coars , other smaller and more delic . the former have belong to oxen , and the latter to men . for fifteen hundr mile one may trace thi ghastli caravan rout by these scatter remain of those who had fallen by the waysid . look down on thi veri scene , there stood upon the fourth of may , eighteen hundr and forty-seven , a solitari travel . hi appear wa such that he might have been the veri geniu or demon of the region . An observ would have found it difficult to say whether he wa nearer to forti or to sixti . hi face wa lean and haggard , and the brown parchment-lik skin wa drawn tightli over the project bone ; hi long , brown hair and beard were all fleck and dash with white ; hi eye were sunken in hi head , and burn with an unnatur lustr ; while the hand which grasp hi rifl wa hardli more fleshi than that of a skeleton . As he stood , he lean upon hi weapon for support , and yet hi tall figur and the massiv framework of hi bone suggest a wiri and vigor constitut . hi gaunt face , howev , and hi cloth , which hung so baggili over hi shrivel limb , proclaim what it wa that gave him that senil and decrepit appear . the man wa die -- die from hunger and from thirst . He had toil pain down the ravin , and on to thi littl elev , in the vain hope of see some sign of water . now the great salt plain stretch befor hi eye , and the distant belt of savag mountain , without a sign anywher of plant or tree , which might indic the presenc of moistur . In all that broad landscap there wa no gleam of hope . north , and east , and west he look with wild question eye , and then he realis that hi wander had come to an end , and that there , on that barren crag , he wa about to die . “ whi not here , as well as in a feather bed , twenti year henc , ” he mutter , as he seat himself in the shelter of a boulder . befor sit down , he had deposit upon the ground hi useless rifl , and also a larg bundl tie up in a grey shawl , which he had carri slung over hi right shoulder . It appear to be somewhat too heavi for hi strength , for in lower it , it came down on the ground with some littl violenc . instantli there broke from the grey parcel a littl moan cri , and from it there protrud a small , scare face , with veri bright brown eye , and two littl speckl , dimpl fist . “ you ’ ve hurt me ! ” said a childish voic reproach . “ have I though , ” the man answer penit , “ I didn ’ t go for to do it. ” As he spoke he unwrap the grey shawl and extric a pretti littl girl of about five year of age , whose dainti shoe and smart pink frock with it littl linen apron all bespok a mother ’ s care . the child wa pale and wan , but her healthi arm and leg show that she had suffer less than her companion . “ how is it now ? ” he answer anxious , for she wa still rub the towsi golden curl which cover the back of her head . “ kiss it and make it well , ” she said , with perfect graviti , shove [ 19 ] the injur part up to him . “ that ’ s what mother use to do . where ’ s mother ? ” “ mother ’ s gone . I guess you ’ ll see her befor long. ” “ gone , eh ! ” said the littl girl . “ funni , she didn ’ t say good-by ; she ‘ most alway did if she wa just goin ’ over to aunti ’ s for tea , and now she ’ s been away three day . say , it ’ s aw dri , ain ’ t it ? ain ’ t there no water , nor noth to eat ? ” “ No , there ain ’ t noth , deari . you ’ ll just need to be patient awhil , and then you ’ ll be all right . put your head up agin me like that , and then you ’ ll feel bullier . It ain ’ t easi to talk when your lip is like leather , but I guess I ’ d best let you know how the card lie . what ’ s that you ’ ve got ? ” “ pretti thing ! fine thing ! ” cri the littl girl enthusiast , hold up two glitter fragment of mica . “ when we goe back to home I ’ ll give them to brother bob. ” “ you ’ ll see prettier thing than them soon , ” said the man confid . “ you just wait a bit . I wa go to tell you though -- you rememb when we left the river ? ” “ Oh , yes. ” “ well , we reckon we ’ d strike anoth river soon , d ’ ye see . but there wa somethin ’ wrong ; compass , or map , or somethin ’ , and it didn ’ t turn up . water ran out . just except a littl drop for the like of you and -- and -- -- ” “ and you couldn ’ t wash yourself , ” interrupt hi companion grave , stare up at hi grimi visag . “ No , nor drink . and mr. bender , he wa the fust to go , and then indian pete , and then mrs. mcgregor , and then johnni hone , and then , deari , your mother. ” “ then mother ’ s a deader too , ” cri the littl girl drop her face in her pinafor and sob bitterli . “ ye , they all went except you and me . then I thought there wa some chanc of water in thi direct , so I heav you over my shoulder and we tramp it togeth . It don ’ t seem as though we ’ ve improv matter . there ’ s an almighti small chanc for us now ! ” “ Do you mean that we are go to die too ? ” ask the child , check her sob , and rais her tear-stain face . “ I guess that ’ s about the size of it. ” “ whi didn ’ t you say so befor ? ” she said , laugh gleefulli . “ you gave me such a fright . whi , of cours , now as long as we die we ’ ll be with mother again. ” “ ye , you will , dearie. ” “ and you too . I ’ ll tell her how aw good you ’ ve been . I ’ ll bet she meet us at the door of heaven with a big pitcher of water , and a lot of buckwheat cake , hot , and toast on both side , like bob and me wa fond of . how long will it be first ? ” “ I don ’ t know -- not veri long. ” the man ’ s eye were fix upon the northern horizon . In the blue vault of the heaven there had appear three littl speck which increas in size everi moment , so rapidli did they approach . they speedili resolv themselv into three larg brown bird , which circl over the head of the two wander , and then settl upon some rock which overlook them . they were buzzard , the vultur of the west , whose come is the forerunn of death . “ cock and hen , ” cri the littl girl gleefulli , point at their ill-omen form , and clap her hand to make them rise . “ say , did god make thi countri ? ” “ In cours He did , ” said her companion , rather startl by thi unexpect question . “ He made the countri down in illinoi , and He made the missouri , ” the littl girl continu . “ I guess somebodi els made the countri in these part . It ’ s not nearli so well done . they forgot the water and the trees. ” “ what would ye think of offer up prayer ? ” the man ask diffid . “ It ain ’ t night yet , ” she answer . “ It don ’ t matter . It ain ’ t quit regular , but He won ’ t mind that , you bet . you say over them one that you use to say everi night in the waggon when we wa on the plains. ” “ whi don ’ t you say some yourself ? ” the child ask , with wonder eye . “ I disrememb them , ” he answer . “ I hain ’ t said none sinc I wa half the height o ’ that gun . I guess it ’ s never too late . you say them out , and I ’ ll stand by and come in on the choruses. ” “ then you ’ ll need to kneel down , and me too , ” she said , lay the shawl out for that purpos . “ you ’ ve got to put your hand up like thi . It make you feel kind o ’ good. ” It wa a strang sight had there been anyth but the buzzard to see it . side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wander , the littl prattl child and the reckless , harden adventur . her chubbi face , and hi haggard , angular visag were both turn up to the cloudless heaven in heartfelt entreati to that dread be with whom they were face to face , while the two voic -- the one thin and clear , the other deep and harsh -- unit in the entreati for merci and forgiv . the prayer finish , they resum their seat in the shadow of the boulder until the child fell asleep , nestl upon the broad breast of her protector . He watch over her slumber for some time , but natur prove to be too strong for him . for three day and three night he had allow himself neither rest nor repos . slowli the eyelid droop over the tire eye , and the head sunk lower and lower upon the breast , until the man ’ s grizzl beard wa mix with the gold tress of hi companion , and both slept the same deep and dreamless slumber . had the wander remain awak for anoth half hour a strang sight would have met hi eye . far away on the extrem verg of the alkali plain there rose up a littl spray of dust , veri slight at first , and hardli to be distinguish from the mist of the distanc , but gradual grow higher and broader until it form a solid , well-defin cloud . thi cloud continu to increas in size until it becam evid that it could onli be rais by a great multitud of move creatur . In more fertil spot the observ would have come to the conclus that one of those great herd of bison which graze upon the prairi land wa approach him . thi wa obvious imposs in these arid wild . As the whirl of dust drew nearer to the solitari bluff upon which the two castaway were repos , the canvas-cov tilt of waggon and the figur of arm horsemen began to show up through the haze , and the apparit reveal itself as be a great caravan upon it journey for the west . but what a caravan ! when the head of it had reach the base of the mountain , the rear wa not yet visibl on the horizon . right across the enorm plain stretch the straggl array , waggon and cart , men on horseback , and men on foot . innumer women who stagger along under burden , and children who toddl besid the waggon or peep out from under the white cover . thi wa evid no ordinari parti of immigr , but rather some nomad peopl who had been compel from stress of circumst to seek themselv a new countri . there rose through the clear air a confus clatter and rumbl from thi great mass of human , with the creak of wheel and the neigh of hors . loud as it wa , it wa not suffici to rous the two tire wayfar abov them . At the head of the column there rode a score or more of grave ironfac men , clad in sombr homespun garment and arm with rifl . On reach the base of the bluff they halt , and held a short council among themselv . “ the well are to the right , my brother , ” said one , a hard-lip , clean-shaven man with grizzli hair . “ To the right of the sierra blanco -- so we shall reach the rio grand , ” said anoth . “ fear not for water , ” cri a third . “ He who could draw it from the rock will not now abandon hi own chosen people. ” “ amen ! amen ! ” respond the whole parti . they were about to resum their journey when one of the youngest and keenest-ey utter an exclam and point up at the rug crag abov them . from it summit there flutter a littl wisp of pink , show up hard and bright against the grey rock behind . At the sight there wa a gener rein up of hors and unsling of gun , while fresh horsemen came gallop up to reinforc the vanguard . the word ‘ redskin ’ wa on everi lip . “ there can ’ t be ani number of injun here , ” said the elderli man who appear to be in command . “ We have pass the pawne , and there are no other tribe until we cross the great mountains. ” “ shall I go forward and see , brother stangerson , ” ask one of the band . “ and I , ” “ and I , ” cri a dozen voic . “ leav your hors below and we will await you here , ” the elder answer . In a moment the young fellow had dismount , fasten their hors , and were ascend the precipit slope which led up to the object which had excit their curios . they advanc rapidli and noiselessli , with the confid and dexter of practis scout . the watcher from the plain below could see them flit from rock to rock until their figur stood out against the skylin . the young man who had first given the alarm wa lead them . suddenli hi follow saw him throw up hi hand , as though overcom with astonish , and on join him they were affect in the same way by the sight which met their eye . On the littl plateau which crown the barren hill there stood a singl giant boulder , and against thi boulder there lay a tall man , long-beard and hard-featur , but of an excess thin . hi placid face and regular breath show that he wa fast asleep . besid him lay a littl child , with her round white arm encircl hi brown sinewi neck , and her golden hair head rest upon the breast of hi velveteen tunic . her rosi lip were part , show the regular line of snow-whit teeth within , and a play smile play over her infantil featur . her plump littl white leg termin in white sock and neat shoe with shine buckl , offer a strang contrast to the long shrivel member of her companion . On the ledg of rock abov thi strang coupl there stood three solemn buzzard , who , at the sight of the new comer utter raucou scream of disappoint and flap sullenli away . the cri of the foul bird awok the two sleeper who stare about [ 20 ] them in bewilder . the man stagger to hi feet and look down upon the plain which had been so desol when sleep had overtaken him , and which wa now travers by thi enorm bodi of men and of beast . hi face assum an express of incredul as he gaze , and he pass hi boney hand over hi eye . “ thi is what they call delirium , I guess , ” he mutter . the child stood besid him , hold on to the skirt of hi coat , and said noth but look all round her with the wonder question gaze of childhood . the rescu parti were speedili abl to convinc the two castaway that their appear wa no delus . one of them seiz the littl girl , and hoist her upon hi shoulder , while two other support her gaunt companion , and assist him toward the waggon . “ My name is john ferrier , ” the wander explain ; “ me and that littl un are all that ’ s left o ’ twenty-on peopl . the rest is all dead o ’ thirst and hunger away down in the south. ” “ Is she your child ? ” ask someon . “ I guess she is now , ” the other cri , defiantli ; “ she ’ s mine ‘ caus I save her . No man will take her from me . she ’ s luci ferrier from thi day on . who are you , though ? ” he continu , glanc with curios at hi stalwart , sunburn rescuer ; “ there seem to be a power lot of ye. ” “ nigh upon ten thousand , ” said one of the young men ; “ we are the persecut children of god -- the chosen of the angel merona. ” “ I never heard tell on him , ” said the wander . “ He appear to have chosen a fair crowd of ye. ” “ Do not jest at that which is sacr , ” said the other sternli . “ We are of those who believ in those sacr write , drawn in egyptian letter on plate of beaten gold , which were hand unto the holi joseph smith at palmyra . We have come from nauvoo , in the state of illinoi , where we had found our templ . We have come to seek a refug from the violent man and from the godless , even though it be the heart of the desert. ” the name of nauvoo evid recal recollect to john ferrier . “ I see , ” he said , “ you are the mormons. ” “ We are the mormon , ” answer hi companion with one voic . “ and where are you go ? ” “ We do not know . the hand of god is lead us under the person of our prophet . you must come befor him . He shall say what is to be done with you. ” they had reach the base of the hill by thi time , and were surround by crowd of the pilgrim -- pale-fac meek-look women , strong laugh children , and anxiou earnest-ey men . mani were the cri of astonish and of commiser which aros from them when they perceiv the youth of one of the stranger and the destitut of the other . their escort did not halt , howev , but push on , follow by a great crowd of mormon , until they reach a waggon , which wa conspicu for it great size and for the gaudi and smart of it appear . six hors were yoke to it , wherea the other were furnish with two , or , at most , four a-piec . besid the driver there sat a man who could not have been more than thirti year of age , but whose massiv head and resolut express mark him as a leader . He wa read a brown-back volum , but as the crowd approach he laid it asid , and listen attent to an account of the episod . then he turn to the two castaway . “ If we take you with us , ” he said , in solemn word , “ it can onli be as believ in our own creed . We shall have no wolv in our fold . better far that your bone should bleach in thi wilder than that you should prove to be that littl speck of decay which in time corrupt the whole fruit . will you come with us on these term ? ” “ guess I ’ ll come with you on ani term , ” said ferrier , with such emphasi that the grave elder could not restrain a smile . the leader alon retain hi stern , impress express . “ take him , brother stangerson , ” he said , “ give him food and drink , and the child likewis . let it be your task also to teach him our holi creed . We have delay long enough . forward ! On , on to zion ! ” “ On , on to zion ! ” cri the crowd of mormon , and the word rippl down the long caravan , pass from mouth to mouth until they die away in a dull murmur in the far distanc . with a crack of whip and a creak of wheel the great waggon got into motion , and soon the whole caravan wa wind along onc more . the elder to whose care the two waif had been commit , led them to hi waggon , where a meal wa alreadi await them . “ you shall remain here , ” he said . “ In a few day you will have recov from your fatigu . In the meantim , rememb that now and for ever you are of our religion . brigham young ha said it , and he ha spoken with the voic of joseph smith , which is the voic of god. ” chapter II . the flower OF utah . thi is not the place to commemor the trial and privat endur by the immigr mormon befor they came to their final haven . from the shore of the mississippi to the western slope of the rocki mountain they had struggl on with a constanc almost unparallel in histori . the savag man , and the savag beast , hunger , thirst , fatigu , and diseas -- everi impedi which natur could place in the way , had all been overcom with anglo-saxon tenac . yet the long journey and the accumul terror had shaken the heart of the stoutest among them . there wa not one who did not sink upon hi knee in heartfelt prayer when they saw the broad valley of utah bath in the sunlight beneath them , and learn from the lip of their leader that thi wa the promis land , and that these virgin acr were to be their for evermor . young speedili prove himself to be a skil administr as well as a resolut chief . map were drawn and chart prepar , in which the futur citi wa sketch out . all around farm were apport and allot in proport to the stand of each individu . the tradesman wa put to hi trade and the artisan to hi call . In the town street and squar sprang up , as if by magic . In the countri there wa drain and hedg , plant and clear , until the next summer saw the whole countri golden with the wheat crop . everyth prosper in the strang settlement . abov all , the great templ which they had erect in the centr of the citi grew ever taller and larger . from the first blush of dawn until the close of the twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw wa never absent from the monument which the immigr erect to him who had led them safe through mani danger . the two castaway , john ferrier and the littl girl who had share hi fortun and had been adopt as hi daughter , accompani the mormon to the end of their great pilgrimag . littl luci ferrier wa born along pleasantli enough in elder stangerson ’ s waggon , a retreat which she share with the mormon ’ s three wive and with hi son , a headstrong forward boy of twelv . have ralli , with the elast of childhood , from the shock caus by her mother ’ s death , she soon becam a pet with the women , and reconcil herself to thi new life in her move canvas-cov home . In the meantim ferrier have recov from hi privat , distinguish himself as a use guid and an indefatig hunter . So rapidli did he gain the esteem of hi new companion , that when they reach the end of their wander , it wa unanim agre that he should be provid with as larg and as fertil a tract of land as ani of the settler , with the except of young himself , and of stangerson , kembal , johnston , and drebber , who were the four princip elder . On the farm thu acquir john ferrier built himself a substanti log-hous , which receiv so mani addit in succeed year that it grew into a roomi villa . He wa a man of a practic turn of mind , keen in hi deal and skil with hi hand . hi iron constitut enabl him to work morn and even at improv and till hi land . henc it came about that hi farm and all that belong to him prosper exceedingli . In three year he wa better off than hi neighbour , in six he wa well-to-do , in nine he wa rich , and in twelv there were not half a dozen men in the whole of salt lake citi who could compar with him . from the great inland sea to the distant wahsatch mountain there wa no name better known than that of john ferrier . there wa one way and onli one in which he offend the suscept of hi co-religionist . No argument or persuas could ever induc him to set up a femal establish after the manner of hi companion . He never gave reason for thi persist refus , but content himself by resolut and inflex adher to hi determin . there were some who accus him of lukewarm in hi adopt religion , and other who put it down to greed of wealth and reluct to incur expens . other , again , spoke of some earli love affair , and of a fair-hair girl who had pine away on the shore of the atlant . whatev the reason , ferrier remain strictli celib . In everi other respect he conform to the religion of the young settlement , and gain the name of be an orthodox and straight-walk man . luci ferrier grew up within the log-hous , and assist her adopt father in all hi undertak . the keen air of the mountain and the balsam odour of the pine tree took the place of nurs and mother to the young girl . As year succeed to year she grew taller and stronger , her cheek more rudi , and her step more elast . mani a wayfar upon the high road which ran by ferrier ’ s farm felt long-forgotten thought reviv in their mind as they watch her lith girlish figur trip through the wheatfield , or met her mount upon her father ’ s mustang , and manag it with all the eas and grace of a true child of the west . So the bud blossom into a flower , and the year which saw her father the richest of the farmer left her as fair a specimen of american girlhood as could be found in the whole pacif slope . It wa not the father , howev , who first discov that the child had develop into the woman . It seldom is in such case . that mysteri chang is too subtl and too gradual to be measur by date . least of all doe the maiden herself know it until the tone of a voic or the touch of a hand set her heart thrill within her , and she learn , with a mixtur of pride and of fear , that a new and a larger natur ha awoken within her . there are few who can not recal that day and rememb the one littl incid which herald the dawn of a new life . In the case of luci ferrier the occas wa seriou enough in itself , apart from it futur influenc on her destini and that of mani besid . It wa a warm june morn , and the latter day saint were as busi as the bee whose hive they have chosen for their emblem . In the field and in the street rose the same hum of human industri . down the dusti high road defil long stream of heavily-laden mule , all head to the west , for the gold fever had broken out in california , and the overland rout lay through the citi of the elect . there , too , were drove of sheep and bullock come in from the outli pastur land , and train of tire immigr , men and hors equal weari of their intermin journey . through all thi motley assemblag , thread her way with the skill of an accomplish rider , there gallop luci ferrier , her fair face flush with the exercis and her long chestnut hair float out behind her . she had a commiss from her father in the citi , and wa dash in as she had done mani a time befor , with all the fearless of youth , think onli of her task and how it wa to be perform . the travel-stain adventur gaze after her in astonish , and even the unemot indian , journey in with their pelti , relax their accustom stoicism as they marvel at the beauti of the pale-fac maiden . she had reach the outskirt of the citi when she found the road block by a great drove of cattl , driven by a half-dozen wild-look herdsmen from the plain . In her impati she endeavour to pass thi obstacl by push her hors into what appear to be a gap . scarc had she got fairli into it , howev , befor the beast close in behind her , and she found herself complet imbed in the move stream of fierce-ey , long-horn bullock . accustom as she wa to deal with cattl , she wa not alarm at her situat , but took advantag of everi opportun to urg her hors on in the hope of push her way through the cavalcad . unfortun the horn of one of the creatur , either by accid or design , came in violent contact with the flank of the mustang , and excit it to mad . In an instant it rear up upon it hind leg with a snort of rage , and pranc and toss in a way that would have unseat ani but a most skil rider . the situat wa full of peril . everi plung of the excit hors brought it against the horn again , and goad it to fresh mad . It wa all that the girl could do to keep herself in the saddl , yet a slip would mean a terribl death under the hoof of the unwieldi and terrifi anim . unaccustom to sudden emerg , her head began to swim , and her grip upon the bridl to relax . choke by the rise cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggl creatur , she might have abandon her effort in despair , but for a kindli voic at her elbow which assur her of assist . At the same moment a sinewi brown hand caught the frighten hors by the curb , and forc a way through the drove , soon brought her to the outskirt . “ you ’ re not hurt , I hope , miss , ” said her preserv , respect . she look up at hi dark , fierc face , and laugh saucili . “ I ’ m aw frighten , ” she said , naiv ; “ whoever would have thought that poncho would have been so scare by a lot of cow ? ” “ thank god you kept your seat , ” the other said earnestli . He wa a tall , savage-look young fellow , mount on a power roan hors , and clad in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifl slung over hi shoulder . “ I guess you are the daughter of john ferrier , ” he remark , “ I saw you ride down from hi hous . when you see him , ask him if he rememb the jefferson hope of st. loui . If he ’ s the same ferrier , my father and he were pretti thick. ” “ hadn ’ t you better come and ask yourself ? ” she ask , demur . the young fellow seem pleas at the suggest , and hi dark eye sparkl with pleasur . “ I ’ ll do so , ” he said , “ we ’ ve been in the mountain for two month , and are not over and abov in visit condit . He must take us as he find us. ” “ He ha a good deal to thank you for , and so have I , ” she answer , “ he ’ s aw fond of me . If those cow had jump on me he ’ d have never got over it. ” “ neither would I , ” said her companion . “ you ! well , I don ’ t see that it would make much matter to you , anyhow . you ain ’ t even a friend of ours. ” the young hunter ’ s dark face grew so gloomi over thi remark that luci ferrier laugh aloud . “ there , I didn ’ t mean that , ” she said ; “ of cours , you are a friend now . you must come and see us . now I must push along , or father won ’ t trust me with hi busi ani more . good-by ! ” “ good-by , ” he answer , rais hi broad sombrero , and bend over her littl hand . she wheel her mustang round , gave it a cut with her riding-whip , and dart away down the broad road in a roll cloud of dust . young jefferson hope rode on with hi companion , gloomi and taciturn . He and they had been among the nevada mountain prospect for silver , and were return to salt lake citi in the hope of rais capit enough to work some lode which they had discov . He had been as keen as ani of them upon the busi until thi sudden incid had drawn hi thought into anoth channel . the sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesom as the sierra breez , had stir hi volcan , untam heart to it veri depth . when she had vanish from hi sight , he realiz that a crisi had come in hi life , and that neither silver specul nor ani other question could ever be of such import to him as thi new and all-absorb one . the love which had sprung up in hi heart wa not the sudden , changeabl fanci of a boy , but rather the wild , fierc passion of a man of strong will and imperi temper . He had been accustom to succeed in all that he undertook . He swore in hi heart that he would not fail in thi if human effort and human persever could render him success . He call on john ferrier that night , and mani time again , until hi face wa a familiar one at the farm-hous . john , coop up in the valley , and absorb in hi work , had had littl chanc of learn the news of the outsid world dure the last twelv year . all thi jefferson hope wa abl to tell him , and in a style which interest luci as well as her father . He had been a pioneer in california , and could narrat mani a strang tale of fortun made and fortun lost in those wild , halcyon day . He had been a scout too , and a trapper , a silver explor , and a ranchman . wherev stir adventur were to be had , jefferson hope had been there in search of them . He soon becam a favourit with the old farmer , who spoke eloqu of hi virtu . On such occas , luci wa silent , but her blush cheek and her bright , happi eye , show onli too clearli that her young heart wa no longer her own . her honest father may not have observ these symptom , but they were assuredli not thrown away upon the man who had won her affect . It wa a summer even when he came gallop down the road and pull up at the gate . she wa at the doorway , and came down to meet him . He threw the bridl over the fenc and strode up the pathway . “ I am off , luci , ” he said , take her two hand in hi , and gaze tenderli down into her face ; “ I won ’ t ask you to come with me now , but will you be readi to come when I am here again ? ” “ and when will that be ? ” she ask , blush and laugh . “ A coupl of month at the outsid . I will come and claim you then , my darl . there ’ s no one who can stand between us. ” “ and how about father ? ” she ask . “ He ha given hi consent , provid we get these mine work all right . I have no fear on that head. ” “ Oh , well ; of cours , if you and father have arrang it all , there ’ s no more to be said , ” she whisper , with her cheek against hi broad breast . “ thank god ! ” he said , hoars , stoop and kiss her . “ It is settl , then . the longer I stay , the harder it will be to go . they are wait for me at the cañon . good-by , my own darl -- good-by . In two month you shall see me. ” He tore himself from her as he spoke , and , fling himself upon hi hors , gallop furious away , never even look round , as though afraid that hi resolut might fail him if he took one glanc at what he wa leav . she stood at the gate , gaze after him until he vanish from her sight . then she walk back into the hous , the happiest girl in all utah . chapter iii . john ferrier talk with the prophet . three week had pass sinc jefferson hope and hi comrad had depart from salt lake citi . john ferrier ’ s heart wa sore within him when he thought of the young man ’ s return , and of the impend loss of hi adopt child . yet her bright and happi face reconcil him to the arrang more than ani argument could have done . He had alway determin , deep down in hi resolut heart , that noth would ever induc him to allow hi daughter to wed a mormon . such a marriag he regard as no marriag at all , but as a shame and a disgrac . whatev he might think of the mormon doctrin , upon that one point he wa inflex . He had to seal hi mouth on the subject , howev , for to express an unorthodox opinion wa a danger matter in those day in the land of the saint . ye , a danger matter -- so danger that even the most saintli dare onli whisper their religi opinion with bate breath , lest someth which fell from their lip might be misconstru , and bring down a swift retribut upon them . the victim of persecut had now turn persecutor on their own account , and persecutor of the most terribl descript . not the inquisit of sevil , nor the german vehm-gericht , nor the secret societi of itali , were ever abl to put a more formid machineri in motion than that which cast a cloud over the state of utah . it invis , and the mysteri which wa attach to it , made thi organ doubli terribl . It appear to be omnisci and omnipot , and yet wa neither seen nor heard . the man who held out against the church vanish away , and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen him . hi wife and hi children await him at home , but no father ever return to tell them how he had fare at the hand of hi secret judg . A rash word or a hasti act wa follow by annihil , and yet none knew what the natur might be of thi terribl power which wa suspend over them . No wonder that men went about in fear and trembl , and that even in the heart of the wilder they dare not whisper the doubt which oppress them . At first thi vagu and terribl power wa exercis onli upon the recalcitr who , have embrac the mormon faith , wish afterward to pervert or to abandon it . soon , howev , it took a wider rang . the suppli of adult women wa run short , and polygami without a femal popul on which to draw wa a barren doctrin inde . strang rumour began to be bandi about -- rumour of murder immigr and rifl camp in region where indian had never been seen . fresh women appear in the harem of the elder -- women who pine and wept , and bore upon their face the trace of an unextinguish horror . belat wander upon the mountain spoke of gang of arm men , mask , stealthi , and noiseless , who flit by them in the dark . these tale and rumour took substanc and shape , and were corrobor and re-corrobor , until they resolv themselv into a definit name . To thi day , in the lone ranch of the west , the name of the danit band , or the aveng angel , is a sinist and an ill-omen one . fuller knowledg of the organ which produc such terribl result serv to increas rather than to lessen the horror which it inspir in the mind of men . none knew who belong to thi ruthless societi . the name of the particip in the deed of blood and violenc done under the name of religion were kept profoundli secret . the veri friend to whom you commun your misgiv as to the prophet and hi mission , might be one of those who would come forth at night with fire and sword to exact a terribl repar . henc everi man fear hi neighbour , and none spoke of the thing which were nearest hi heart . one fine morn , john ferrier wa about to set out to hi wheatfield , when he heard the click of the latch , and , look through the window , saw a stout , sandy-hair , middle-ag man come up the pathway . hi heart leapt to hi mouth , for thi wa none other than the great brigham young himself . full of trepid -- for he knew that such a visit bode him littl good -- ferrier ran to the door to greet the mormon chief . the latter , howev , receiv hi salut coldli , and follow him with a stern face into the sitting-room . “ brother ferrier , ” he said , take a seat , and eye the farmer keenli from under hi light-colour eyelash , “ the true believ have been good friend to you . We pick you up when you were starv in the desert , we share our food with you , led you safe to the chosen valley , gave you a goodli share of land , and allow you to wax rich under our protect . Is not thi so ? ” “ It is so , ” answer john ferrier . “ In return for all thi we ask but one condit : that wa , that you should embrac the true faith , and conform in everi way to it usag . thi you promis to do , and thi , if common report say truli , you have neglected. ” “ and how have I neglect it ? ” ask ferrier , throw out hi hand in expostul . “ have I not given to the common fund ? have I not attend at the templ ? have I not -- -- ? ” “ where are your wive ? ” ask young , look round him . “ call them in , that I may greet them. ” “ It is true that I have not marri , ” ferrier answer . “ but women were few , and there were mani who had better claim than I. I wa not a lone man : I had my daughter to attend to my wants. ” “ It is of that daughter that I would speak to you , ” said the leader of the mormon . “ she ha grown to be the flower of utah , and ha found favour in the eye of mani who are high in the land. ” john ferrier groan intern . “ there are stori of her which I would fain disbeliev -- stori that she is seal to some gentil . thi must be the gossip of idl tongu . what is the thirteenth rule in the code of the saint joseph smith ? ‘ let everi maiden of the true faith marri one of the elect ; for if she wed a gentil , she commit a grievou sin. ’ thi be so , it is imposs that you , who profess the holi creed , should suffer your daughter to violat it. ” john ferrier made no answer , but he play nervous with hi riding-whip . “ upon thi one point your whole faith shall be test -- so it ha been decid in the sacr council of four . the girl is young , and we would not have her wed grey hair , neither would we depriv her of all choic . We elder have mani heifer , [ 29 ] but our children must also be provid . stangerson ha a son , and drebber ha a son , and either of them would gladli welcom your daughter to their hous . let her choos between them . they are young and rich , and of the true faith . what say you to that ? ” ferrier remain silent for some littl time with hi brow knit . “ you will give us time , ” he said at last . “ My daughter is veri young -- she is scarc of an age to marry. ” “ she shall have a month to choos , ” said young , rise from hi seat . “ At the end of that time she shall give her answer. ” He wa pass through the door , when he turn , with flush face and flash eye . “ It were better for you , john ferrier , ” he thunder , “ that you and she were now lie blanch skeleton upon the sierra blanco , than that you should put your weak will against the order of the holi four ! ” with a threaten gestur of hi hand , he turn from the door , and ferrier heard hi heavi step scrunch along the shingli path . He wa still sit with hi elbow upon hi knee , consid how he should broach the matter to hi daughter when a soft hand wa laid upon hi , and look up , he saw her stand besid him . one glanc at her pale , frighten face show him that she had heard what had pass . “ I could not help it , ” she said , in answer to hi look . “ hi voic rang through the hous . Oh , father , father , what shall we do ? ” “ don ’ t you scare yourself , ” he answer , draw her to him , and pass hi broad , rough hand caressingli over her chestnut hair . “ We ’ ll fix it up somehow or anoth . you don ’ t find your fanci kind o ’ lessen for thi chap , do you ? ” A sob and a squeez of hi hand wa her onli answer . “ No ; of cours not . I shouldn ’ t care to hear you say you did . He ’ s a like lad , and he ’ s a christian , which is more than these folk here , in spite o ’ all their pray and preach . there ’ s a parti start for nevada to-morrow , and I ’ ll manag to send him a messag let him know the hole we are in . If I know anyth o ’ that young man , he ’ ll be back here with a speed that would whip electro-telegraphs. ” luci laugh through her tear at her father ’ s descript . “ when he come , he will advis us for the best . but it is for you that I am frighten , dear . one hear -- one hear such dread stori about those who oppos the prophet : someth terribl alway happen to them. ” “ but we haven ’ t oppos him yet , ” her father answer . “ It will be time to look out for squall when we do . We have a clear month befor us ; at the end of that , I guess we had best shin out of utah. ” “ leav utah ! ” “ that ’ s about the size of it. ” “ but the farm ? ” “ We will rais as much as we can in money , and let the rest go . To tell the truth , luci , it isn ’ t the first time I have thought of do it . I don ’ t care about knuckl under to ani man , as these folk do to their darn prophet . I ’ m a free-born american , and it ’ s all new to me . guess I ’ m too old to learn . If he come brows about thi farm , he might chanc to run up against a charg of buckshot travel in the opposit direction. ” “ but they won ’ t let us leav , ” hi daughter object . “ wait till jefferson come , and we ’ ll soon manag that . In the meantim , don ’ t you fret yourself , my deari , and don ’ t get your eye swell up , els he ’ ll be walk into me when he see you . there ’ s noth to be afear about , and there ’ s no danger at all. ” john ferrier utter these consol remark in a veri confid tone , but she could not help observ that he paid unusu care to the fasten of the door that night , and that he care clean and load the rusti old shotgun which hung upon the wall of hi bedroom . chapter IV . A flight for life . ON the morn which follow hi interview with the mormon prophet , john ferrier went in to salt lake citi , and have found hi acquaint , who wa bound for the nevada mountain , he entrust him with hi messag to jefferson hope . In it he told the young man of the immin danger which threaten them , and how necessari it wa that he should return . have done thu he felt easier in hi mind , and return home with a lighter heart . As he approach hi farm , he wa surpris to see a hors hitch to each of the post of the gate . still more surpris wa he on enter to find two young men in possess of hi sitting-room . one , with a long pale face , wa lean back in the rocking-chair , with hi feet cock up upon the stove . the other , a bull-neck youth with coars bloat featur , wa stand in front of the window with hi hand in hi pocket , whistl a popular hymn . both of them nod to ferrier as he enter , and the one in the rocking-chair commenc the convers . “ mayb you don ’ t know us , ” he said . “ thi here is the son of elder drebber , and I ’ m joseph stangerson , who travel with you in the desert when the lord stretch out hi hand and gather you into the true fold. ” “ As He will all the nation in hi own good time , ” said the other in a nasal voic ; “ He grindeth slowli but exceed small. ” john ferrier bow coldli . He had guess who hi visitor were . “ We have come , ” continu stangerson , “ at the advic of our father to solicit the hand of your daughter for whichev of us may seem good to you and to her . As I have but four wive and brother drebber here ha seven , it appear to me that my claim is the stronger one. ” “ nay , nay , brother stangerson , ” cri the other ; “ the question is not how mani wive we have , but how mani we can keep . My father ha now given over hi mill to me , and I am the richer man. ” “ but my prospect are better , ” said the other , warmli . “ when the lord remov my father , I shall have hi tan yard and hi leather factori . then I am your elder , and am higher in the church. ” “ It will be for the maiden to decid , ” rejoin young drebber , smirk at hi own reflect in the glass . “ We will leav it all to her decision. ” dure thi dialogu , john ferrier had stood fume in the doorway , hardli abl to keep hi riding-whip from the back of hi two visitor . “ look here , ” he said at last , stride up to them , “ when my daughter summon you , you can come , but until then I don ’ t want to see your face again. ” the two young mormon stare at him in amaz . In their eye thi competit between them for the maiden ’ s hand wa the highest of honour both to her and her father . “ there are two way out of the room , ” cri ferrier ; “ there is the door , and there is the window . which do you care to use ? ” hi brown face look so savag , and hi gaunt hand so threaten , that hi visitor sprang to their feet and beat a hurri retreat . the old farmer follow them to the door . “ let me know when you have settl which it is to be , ” he said , sardon . “ you shall smart for thi ! ” stangerson cri , white with rage . “ you have defi the prophet and the council of four . you shall rue it to the end of your days. ” “ the hand of the lord shall be heavi upon you , ” cri young drebber ; “ He will aris and smite you ! ” “ then I ’ ll start the smite , ” exclaim ferrier furious , and would have rush upstair for hi gun had not luci seiz him by the arm and restrain him . befor he could escap from her , the clatter of hors ’ hoof told him that they were beyond hi reach . “ the young cant rascal ! ” he exclaim , wipe the perspir from hi forehead ; “ I would sooner see you in your grave , my girl , than the wife of either of them. ” “ and so should I , father , ” she answer , with spirit ; “ but jefferson will soon be here. ” “ ye . It will not be long befor he come . the sooner the better , for we do not know what their next move may be. ” It wa , inde , high time that someon capabl of give advic and help should come to the aid of the sturdi old farmer and hi adopt daughter . In the whole histori of the settlement there had never been such a case of rank disobedi to the author of the elder . If minor error were punish so sternli , what would be the fate of thi arch rebel . ferrier knew that hi wealth and posit would be of no avail to him . other as well known and as rich as himself had been spirit away befor now , and their good given over to the church . He wa a brave man , but he trembl at the vagu , shadowi terror which hung over him . ani known danger he could face with a firm lip , but thi suspens wa unnerv . He conceal hi fear from hi daughter , howev , and affect to make light of the whole matter , though she , with the keen eye of love , saw plainli that he wa ill at eas . He expect that he would receiv some messag or remonstr from young as to hi conduct , and he wa not mistaken , though it came in an unlooked-for manner . upon rise next morn he found , to hi surpris , a small squar of paper pin on to the coverlet of hi bed just over hi chest . On it wa print , in bold straggl letter : -- “ twenty-nin day are given you for amend , and then -- -- ” the dash wa more fear-inspir than ani threat could have been . how thi warn came into hi room puzzl john ferrier sore , for hi servant slept in an outhous , and the door and window had all been secur . He crumpl the paper up and said noth to hi daughter , but the incid struck a chill into hi heart . the twenty-nin day were evid the balanc of the month which young had promis . what strength or courag could avail against an enemi arm with such mysteri power ? the hand which fasten that pin might have struck him to the heart , and he could never have known who had slain him . still more shaken wa he next morn . they had sat down to their breakfast when luci with a cri of surpris point upward . In the centr of the ceil wa scrawl , with a burn stick appar , the number 28 . To hi daughter it wa unintellig , and he did not enlighten her . that night he sat up with hi gun and kept watch and ward . He saw and he heard noth , and yet in the morn a great 27 had been paint upon the outsid of hi door . thu day follow day ; and as sure as morn came he found that hi unseen enemi had kept their regist , and had mark up in some conspicu posit how mani day were still left to him out of the month of grace . sometim the fatal number appear upon the wall , sometim upon the floor , occasion they were on small placard stuck upon the garden gate or the rail . with all hi vigil john ferrier could not discov whenc these daili warn proceed . A horror which wa almost superstiti came upon him at the sight of them . He becam haggard and restless , and hi eye had the troubl look of some hunt creatur . He had but one hope in life now , and that wa for the arriv of the young hunter from nevada . twenti had chang to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there wa no news of the absente . one by one the number dwindl down , and still there came no sign of him . whenev a horseman clatter down the road , or a driver shout at hi team , the old farmer hurri to the gate think that help had arriv at last . At last , when he saw five give way to four and that again to three , he lost heart , and abandon all hope of escap . single-hand , and with hi limit knowledg of the mountain which surround the settlement , he knew that he wa powerless . the more-frequ road were strictli watch and guard , and none could pass along them without an order from the council . turn which way he would , there appear to be no avoid the blow which hung over him . yet the old man never waver in hi resolut to part with life itself befor he consent to what he regard as hi daughter ’ s dishonour . He wa sit alon one even ponder deepli over hi troubl , and search vainli for some way out of them . that morn had shown the figur 2 upon the wall of hi hous , and the next day would be the last of the allot time . what wa to happen then ? all manner of vagu and terribl fanci fill hi imagin . and hi daughter -- what wa to becom of her after he wa gone ? wa there no escap from the invis network which wa drawn all round them . He sank hi head upon the tabl and sob at the thought of hi own impot . what wa that ? In the silenc he heard a gentl scratch sound -- low , but veri distinct in the quiet of the night . It came from the door of the hous . ferrier crept into the hall and listen intent . there wa a paus for a few moment , and then the low insidi sound wa repeat . someon wa evid tap veri gentli upon one of the panel of the door . wa it some midnight assassin who had come to carri out the murder order of the secret tribun ? Or wa it some agent who wa mark up that the last day of grace had arriv . john ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the suspens which shook hi nerv and chill hi heart . spring forward he drew the bolt and threw the door open . outsid all wa calm and quiet . the night wa fine , and the star were twinkl brightli overhead . the littl front garden lay befor the farmer ’ s eye bound by the fenc and gate , but neither there nor on the road wa ani human be to be seen . with a sigh of relief , ferrier look to right and to left , until happen to glanc straight down at hi own feet he saw to hi astonish a man lie flat upon hi face upon the ground , with arm and leg all asprawl . So unnerv wa he at the sight that he lean up against the wall with hi hand to hi throat to stifl hi inclin to call out . hi first thought wa that the prostrat figur wa that of some wound or die man , but as he watch it he saw it writh along the ground and into the hall with the rapid and noiseless of a serpent . onc within the hous the man sprang to hi feet , close the door , and reveal to the astonish farmer the fierc face and resolut express of jefferson hope . “ good god ! ” gasp john ferrier . “ how you scare me ! whatev made you come in like that. ” “ give me food , ” the other said , hoars . “ I have had no time for bite or sup for eight-and-forti hours. ” He flung himself upon the [ 21 ] cold meat and bread which were still lie upon the tabl from hi host ’ s supper , and devour it voraci . “ doe luci bear up well ? ” he ask , when he had satisfi hi hunger . “ ye . she doe not know the danger , ” her father answer . “ that is well . the hous is watch on everi side . that is whi I crawl my way up to it . they may be darn sharp , but they ’ re not quit sharp enough to catch a washo hunter. ” john ferrier felt a differ man now that he realiz that he had a devot alli . He seiz the young man ’ s leatheri hand and wrung it cordial . “ you ’ re a man to be proud of , ” he said . “ there are not mani who would come to share our danger and our troubles. ” “ you ’ ve hit it there , pard , ” the young hunter answer . “ I have a respect for you , but if you were alon in thi busi I ’ d think twice befor I put my head into such a hornet ’ s nest . It ’ s luci that bring me here , and befor harm come on her I guess there will be one less o ’ the hope famili in utah. ” “ what are we to do ? ” “ to-morrow is your last day , and unless you act to-night you are lost . I have a mule and two hors wait in the eagl ravin . how much money have you ? ” “ two thousand dollar in gold , and five in notes. ” “ that will do . I have as much more to add to it . We must push for carson citi through the mountain . you had best wake luci . It is as well that the servant do not sleep in the house. ” while ferrier wa absent , prepar hi daughter for the approach journey , jefferson hope pack all the eatabl that he could find into a small parcel , and fill a stonewar jar with water , for he knew by experi that the mountain well were few and far between . He had hardli complet hi arrang befor the farmer return with hi daughter all dress and readi for a start . the greet between the lover wa warm , but brief , for minut were preciou , and there wa much to be done . “ We must make our start at onc , ” said jefferson hope , speak in a low but resolut voic , like one who realiz the great of the peril , but ha steel hi heart to meet it . “ the front and back entranc are watch , but with caution we may get away through the side window and across the field . onc on the road we are onli two mile from the ravin where the hors are wait . By daybreak we should be half-way through the mountains. ” “ what if we are stop , ” ask ferrier . hope slap the revolv butt which protrud from the front of hi tunic . “ If they are too mani for us we shall take two or three of them with us , ” he said with a sinist smile . the light insid the hous had all been extinguish , and from the darken window ferrier peer over the field which had been hi own , and which he wa now about to abandon for ever . He had long nerv himself to the sacrific , howev , and the thought of the honour and happi of hi daughter outweigh ani regret at hi ruin fortun . all look so peac and happi , the rustl tree and the broad silent stretch of grain-land , that it wa difficult to realiz that the spirit of murder lurk through it all . yet the white face and set express of the young hunter show that in hi approach to the hous he had seen enough to satisfi him upon that head . ferrier carri the bag of gold and note , jefferson hope had the scanti provis and water , while luci had a small bundl contain a few of her more valu possess . open the window veri slowli and care , they wait until a dark cloud had somewhat obscur the night , and then one by one pass through into the littl garden . with bate breath and crouch figur they stumbl across it , and gain the shelter of the hedg , which they skirt until they came to the gap which open into the cornfield . they had just reach thi point when the young man seiz hi two companion and drag them down into the shadow , where they lay silent and trembl . It wa as well that hi prairi train had given jefferson hope the ear of a lynx . He and hi friend had hardli crouch down befor the melancholi hoot of a mountain owl wa heard within a few yard of them , which wa immedi answer by anoth hoot at a small distanc . At the same moment a vagu shadowi figur emerg from the gap for which they had been make , and utter the plaintiv signal cri again , on which a second man appear out of the obscur . “ to-morrow at midnight , ” said the first who appear to be in author . “ when the whip-poor-wil call three times. ” “ It is well , ” return the other . “ shall I tell brother drebber ? ” “ pass it on to him , and from him to the other . nine to seven ! ” “ seven to five ! ” repeat the other , and the two figur flit away in differ direct . their conclud word had evid been some form of sign and countersign . the instant that their footstep had die away in the distanc , jefferson hope sprang to hi feet , and help hi companion through the gap , led the way across the field at the top of hi speed , support and half-carri the girl when her strength appear to fail her . “ hurri on ! hurri on ! ” he gasp from time to time . “ We are through the line of sentinel . everyth depend on speed . hurri on ! ” onc on the high road they made rapid progress . onli onc did they meet anyon , and then they manag to slip into a field , and so avoid recognit . befor reach the town the hunter branch away into a rug and narrow footpath which led to the mountain . two dark jag peak loom abov them through the dark , and the defil which led between them wa the eagl cañon in which the hors were await them . with uner instinct jefferson hope pick hi way among the great boulder and along the bed of a dried-up watercours , until he came to the retir corner , screen with rock , where the faith anim had been picket . the girl wa place upon the mule , and old ferrier upon one of the hors , with hi money-bag , while jefferson hope led the other along the precipit and danger path . It wa a bewild rout for anyon who wa not accustom to face natur in her wildest mood . On the one side a great crag tower up a thousand feet or more , black , stern , and menac , with long basalt column upon it rug surfac like the rib of some petrifi monster . On the other hand a wild chao of boulder and debri made all advanc imposs . between the two ran the irregular track , so narrow in place that they had to travel in indian file , and so rough that onli practis rider could have travers it at all . yet in spite of all danger and difficulti , the heart of the fugit were light within them , for everi step increas the distanc between them and the terribl despot from which they were fli . they soon had a proof , howev , that they were still within the jurisdict of the saint . they had reach the veri wildest and most desol portion of the pass when the girl gave a startl cri , and point upward . On a rock which overlook the track , show out dark and plain against the sky , there stood a solitari sentinel . He saw them as soon as they perceiv him , and hi militari challeng of “ who goe there ? ” rang through the silent ravin . “ travel for nevada , ” said jefferson hope , with hi hand upon the rifl which hung by hi saddl . they could see the lone watcher finger hi gun , and peer down at them as if dissatisfi at their repli . “ By whose permiss ? ” he ask . “ the holi four , ” answer ferrier . hi mormon experi had taught him that that wa the highest author to which he could refer . “ nine from seven , ” cri the sentinel . “ seven from five , ” return jefferson hope promptli , rememb the countersign which he had heard in the garden . “ pass , and the lord go with you , ” said the voic from abov . beyond hi post the path broaden out , and the hors were abl to break into a trot . look back , they could see the solitari watcher lean upon hi gun , and knew that they had pass the outli post of the chosen peopl , and that freedom lay befor them . chapter V. the aveng angel . all night their cours lay through intric defil and over irregular and rock-strewn path . more than onc they lost their way , but hope ’ s intim knowledg of the mountain enabl them to regain the track onc more . when morn broke , a scene of marvel though savag beauti lay befor them . In everi direct the great snow-cap peak hem them in , peep over each other ’ s shoulder to the far horizon . So steep were the rocki bank on either side of them , that the larch and the pine seem to be suspend over their head , and to need onli a gust of wind to come hurtl down upon them . nor wa the fear entir an illus , for the barren valley wa thickli strewn with tree and boulder which had fallen in a similar manner . even as they pass , a great rock came thunder down with a hoars rattl which woke the echo in the silent gorg , and startl the weari hors into a gallop . As the sun rose slowli abov the eastern horizon , the cap of the great mountain lit up one after the other , like lamp at a festiv , until they were all ruddi and glow . the magnific spectacl cheer the heart of the three fugit and gave them fresh energi . At a wild torrent which swept out of a ravin they call a halt and water their hors , while they partook of a hasti breakfast . luci and her father would fain have rest longer , but jefferson hope wa inexor . “ they will be upon our track by thi time , ” he said . “ everyth depend upon our speed . onc safe in carson we may rest for the remaind of our lives. ” dure the whole of that day they struggl on through the defil , and by even they calcul that they were more than thirti mile from their enemi . At night-tim they chose the base of a beetl crag , where the rock offer some protect from the chill wind , and there huddl togeth for warmth , they enjoy a few hour ’ sleep . befor daybreak , howev , they were up and on their way onc more . they had seen no sign of ani pursuer , and jefferson hope began to think that they were fairli out of the reach of the terribl organ whose enmiti they had incur . He littl knew how far that iron grasp could reach , or how soon it wa to close upon them and crush them . about the middl of the second day of their flight their scanti store of provis began to run out . thi gave the hunter littl uneasi , howev , for there wa game to be had among the mountain , and he had frequent befor had to depend upon hi rifl for the need of life . choos a shelter nook , he pile togeth a few dri branch and made a blaze fire , at which hi companion might warm themselv , for they were now nearli five thousand feet abov the sea level , and the air wa bitter and keen . have tether the hors , and bade luci adieu , he threw hi gun over hi shoulder , and set out in search of whatev chanc might throw in hi way . look back he saw the old man and the young girl crouch over the blaze fire , while the three anim stood motionless in the back-ground . then the interven rock hid them from hi view . He walk for a coupl of mile through one ravin after anoth without success , though from the mark upon the bark of the tree , and other indic , he judg that there were numer bear in the vicin . At last , after two or three hour ’ fruitless search , he wa think of turn back in despair , when cast hi eye upward he saw a sight which sent a thrill of pleasur through hi heart . On the edg of a jut pinnacl , three or four hundr feet abov him , there stood a creatur somewhat resembl a sheep in appear , but arm with a pair of gigant horn . the big-horn -- for so it is call -- wa act , probabl , as a guardian over a flock which were invis to the hunter ; but fortun it wa head in the opposit direct , and had not perceiv him . ly on hi face , he rest hi rifl upon a rock , and took a long and steadi aim befor draw the trigger . the anim sprang into the air , totter for a moment upon the edg of the precipic , and then came crash down into the valley beneath . the creatur wa too unwieldi to lift , so the hunter content himself with cut away one haunch and part of the flank . with thi trophi over hi shoulder , he hasten to retrac hi step , for the even wa alreadi draw in . He had hardli start , howev , befor he realiz the difficulti which face him . In hi eager he had wander far past the ravin which were known to him , and it wa no easi matter to pick out the path which he had taken . the valley in which he found himself divid and sub-divid into mani gorg , which were so like each other that it wa imposs to distinguish one from the other . He follow one for a mile or more until he came to a mountain torrent which he wa sure that he had never seen befor . convinc that he had taken the wrong turn , he tri anoth , but with the same result . night wa come on rapidli , and it wa almost dark befor he at last found himself in a defil which wa familiar to him . even then it wa no easi matter to keep to the right track , for the moon had not yet risen , and the high cliff on either side made the obscur more profound . weigh down with hi burden , and weari from hi exert , he stumbl along , keep up hi heart by the reflect that everi step brought him nearer to luci , and that he carri with him enough to ensur them food for the remaind of their journey . He had now come to the mouth of the veri defil in which he had left them . even in the dark he could recogn the outlin of the cliff which bound it . they must , he reflect , be await him anxious , for he had been absent nearli five hour . In the glad of hi heart he put hi hand to hi mouth and made the glen re-echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he wa come . He paus and listen for an answer . none came save hi own cri , which clatter up the dreari silent ravin , and wa born back to hi ear in countless repetit . again he shout , even louder than befor , and again no whisper came back from the friend whom he had left such a short time ago . A vagu , nameless dread came over him , and he hurri onward frantic , drop the preciou food in hi agit . when he turn the corner , he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had been lit . there wa still a glow pile of wood ash there , but it had evid not been tend sinc hi departur . the same dead silenc still reign all round . with hi fear all chang to convict , he hurri on . there wa no live creatur near the remain of the fire : anim , man , maiden , all were gone . It wa onli too clear that some sudden and terribl disast had occur dure hi absenc -- a disast which had embrac them all , and yet had left no trace behind it . bewild and stun by thi blow , jefferson hope felt hi head spin round , and had to lean upon hi rifl to save himself from fall . He wa essenti a man of action , howev , and speedili recov from hi temporari impot . seiz a half-consum piec of wood from the smoulder fire , he blew it into a flame , and proceed with it help to examin the littl camp . the ground wa all stamp down by the feet of hors , show that a larg parti of mount men had overtaken the fugit , and the direct of their track prove that they had afterward turn back to salt lake citi . had they carri back both of hi companion with them ? jefferson hope had almost persuad himself that they must have done so , when hi eye fell upon an object which made everi nerv of hi bodi tingl within him . A littl way on one side of the camp wa a low-li heap of reddish soil , which had assuredli not been there befor . there wa no mistak it for anyth but a newly-dug grave . As the young hunter approach it , he perceiv that a stick had been plant on it , with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it . the inscript upon the paper wa brief , but to the point : john ferrier , formerli OF salt lake citi , [ 22 ] die august 4th , 1860 . the sturdi old man , whom he had left so short a time befor , wa gone , then , and thi wa all hi epitaph . jefferson hope look wildli round to see if there wa a second grave , but there wa no sign of one . luci had been carri back by their terribl pursuer to fulfil her origin destini , by becom one of the harem of the elder ’ s son . As the young fellow realiz the certainti of her fate , and hi own powerless to prevent it , he wish that he , too , wa lie with the old farmer in hi last silent resting-plac . again , howev , hi activ spirit shook off the lethargi which spring from despair . If there wa noth els left to him , he could at least devot hi life to reveng . with indomit patienc and persever , jefferson hope possess also a power of sustain vindict , which he may have learn from the indian amongst whom he had live . As he stood by the desol fire , he felt that the onli one thing which could assuag hi grief would be thorough and complet retribut , brought by hi own hand upon hi enemi . hi strong will and untir energi should , he determin , be devot to that one end . with a grim , white face , he retrac hi step to where he had drop the food , and have stir up the smoulder fire , he cook enough to last him for a few day . thi he made up into a bundl , and , tire as he wa , he set himself to walk back through the mountain upon the track of the aveng angel . for five day he toil footsor and weari through the defil which he had alreadi travers on horseback . At night he flung himself down among the rock , and snatch a few hour of sleep ; but befor daybreak he wa alway well on hi way . On the sixth day , he reach the eagl cañon , from which they had commenc their ill-fat flight . thenc he could look down upon the home of the saint . worn and exhaust , he lean upon hi rifl and shook hi gaunt hand fierc at the silent widespread citi beneath him . As he look at it , he observ that there were flag in some of the princip street , and other sign of festiv . He wa still specul as to what thi might mean when he heard the clatter of hors ’ s hoof , and saw a mount man ride toward him . As he approach , he recogn him as a mormon name cowper , to whom he had render servic at differ time . He therefor accost him when he got up to him , with the object of find out what luci ferrier ’ s fate had been . “ I am jefferson hope , ” he said . “ you rememb me. ” the mormon look at him with undisguis astonish -- inde , it wa difficult to recogn in thi tatter , unkempt wander , with ghastli white face and fierc , wild eye , the spruce young hunter of former day . have , howev , at last , satisfi himself as to hi ident , the man ’ s surpris chang to constern . “ you are mad to come here , ” he cri . “ It is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talk with you . there is a warrant against you from the holi four for assist the ferrier away. ” “ I don ’ t fear them , or their warrant , ” hope said , earnestli . “ you must know someth of thi matter , cowper . I conjur you by everyth you hold dear to answer a few question . We have alway been friend . for god ’ s sake , don ’ t refus to answer me. ” “ what is it ? ” the mormon ask uneasili . “ Be quick . the veri rock have ear and the tree eyes. ” “ what ha becom of luci ferrier ? ” “ she wa marri yesterday to young drebber . hold up , man , hold up , you have no life left in you. ” “ don ’ t mind me , ” said hope faintli . He wa white to the veri lip , and had sunk down on the stone against which he had been lean . “ marri , you say ? ” “ marri yesterday -- that ’ s what those flag are for on the endow hous . there wa some word between young drebber and young stangerson as to which wa to have her . they ’ d both been in the parti that follow them , and stangerson had shot her father , which seem to give him the best claim ; but when they argu it out in council , drebber ’ s parti wa the stronger , so the prophet gave her over to him . No one won ’ t have her veri long though , for I saw death in her face yesterday . she is more like a ghost than a woman . are you off , then ? ” “ ye , I am off , ” said jefferson hope , who had risen from hi seat . hi face might have been chisel out of marbl , so hard and set wa it express , while it eye glow with a bale light . “ where are you go ? ” “ never mind , ” he answer ; and , sling hi weapon over hi shoulder , strode off down the gorg and so away into the heart of the mountain to the haunt of the wild beast . amongst them all there wa none so fierc and so danger as himself . the predict of the mormon wa onli too well fulfil . whether it wa the terribl death of her father or the effect of the hate marriag into which she had been forc , poor luci never held up her head again , but pine away and die within a month . her sottish husband , who had marri her princip for the sake of john ferrier ’ s properti , did not affect ani great grief at hi bereav ; but hi other wive mourn over her , and sat up with her the night befor the burial , as is the mormon custom . they were group round the bier in the earli hour of the morn , when , to their inexpress fear and astonish , the door wa flung open , and a savage-look , weather-beaten man in tatter garment strode into the room . without a glanc or a word to the cower women , he walk up to the white silent figur which had onc contain the pure soul of luci ferrier . stoop over her , he press hi lip rever to her cold forehead , and then , snatch up her hand , he took the wedding-r from her finger . “ she shall not be buri in that , ” he cri with a fierc snarl , and befor an alarm could be rais sprang down the stair and wa gone . So strang and so brief wa the episod , that the watcher might have found it hard to believ it themselv or persuad other peopl of it , had it not been for the undeni fact that the circlet of gold which mark her as have been a bride had disappear . for some month jefferson hope linger among the mountain , lead a strang wild life , and nurs in hi heart the fierc desir for vengeanc which possess him . tale were told in the citi of the weird figur which wa seen prowl about the suburb , and which haunt the lone mountain gorg . onc a bullet whistl through stangerson ’ s window and flatten itself upon the wall within a foot of him . On anoth occas , as drebber pass under a cliff a great boulder crash down on him , and he onli escap a terribl death by throw himself upon hi face . the two young mormon were not long in discov the reason of these attempt upon their live , and led repeat expedit into the mountain in the hope of captur or kill their enemi , but alway without success . then they adopt the precaut of never go out alon or after nightfal , and of have their hous guard . after a time they were abl to relax these measur , for noth wa either heard or seen of their oppon , and they hope that time had cool hi vindict . far from do so , it had , if anyth , augment it . the hunter ’ s mind wa of a hard , unyield natur , and the predomin idea of reveng had taken such complet possess of it that there wa no room for ani other emot . He wa , howev , abov all thing practic . He soon realiz that even hi iron constitut could not stand the incess strain which he wa put upon it . exposur and want of wholesom food were wear him out . If he die like a dog among the mountain , what wa to becom of hi reveng then ? and yet such a death wa sure to overtak him if he persist . He felt that that wa to play hi enemi ’ s game , so he reluctantli return to the old nevada mine , there to recruit hi health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursu hi object without privat . hi intent had been to be absent a year at the most , but a combin of unforeseen circumst prevent hi leav the mine for nearli five . At the end of that time , howev , hi memori of hi wrong and hi crave for reveng were quit as keen as on that memor night when he had stood by john ferrier ’ s grave . disguis , and under an assum name , he return to salt lake citi , careless what becam of hi own life , as long as he obtain what he knew to be justic . there he found evil tide await him . there had been a schism among the chosen peopl a few month befor , some of the younger member of the church have rebel against the author of the elder , and the result had been the secess of a certain number of the malcont , who had left utah and becom gentil . among these had been drebber and stangerson ; and no one knew whither they had gone . rumour report that drebber had manag to convert a larg part of hi properti into money , and that he had depart a wealthi man , while hi companion , stangerson , wa compar poor . there wa no clue at all , howev , as to their whereabout . mani a man , howev vindict , would have abandon all thought of reveng in the face of such a difficulti , but jefferson hope never falter for a moment . with the small compet he possess , eke out by such employ as he could pick up , he travel from town to town through the unit state in quest of hi enemi . year pass into year , hi black hair turn grizzl , but still he wander on , a human bloodhound , with hi mind wholli set upon the one object upon which he had devot hi life . At last hi persever wa reward . It wa but a glanc of a face in a window , but that one glanc told him that cleveland in ohio possess the men whom he wa in pursuit of . He return to hi miser lodg with hi plan of vengeanc all arrang . It chanc , howev , that drebber , look from hi window , had recogn the vagrant in the street , and had read murder in hi eye . He hurri befor a justic of the peac , accompani by stangerson , who had becom hi privat secretari , and repres to him that they were in danger of their live from the jealousi and hatr of an old rival . that even jefferson hope wa taken into custodi , and not be abl to find sureti , wa detain for some week . when at last he wa liber , it wa onli to find that drebber ’ s hous wa desert , and that he and hi secretari had depart for europ . again the aveng had been foil , and again hi concentr hatr urg him to continu the pursuit . fund were want , howev , and for some time he had to return to work , save everi dollar for hi approach journey . At last , have collect enough to keep life in him , he depart for europ , and track hi enemi from citi to citi , work hi way in ani menial capac , but never overtak the fugit . when he reach st. petersburg they had depart for pari ; and when he follow them there he learn that they had just set off for copenhagen . At the danish capit he wa again a few day late , for they had journey on to london , where he at last succeed in run them to earth . As to what occur there , we can not do better than quot the old hunter ’ s own account , as duli record in dr. watson ’ s journal , to which we are alreadi under such oblig . chapter VI . A continu OF the reminisc OF john watson , m.d . our prison ’ s furiou resist did not appar indic ani feroc in hi disposit toward ourselv , for on find himself powerless , he smile in an affabl manner , and express hi hope that he had not hurt ani of us in the scuffl . “ I guess you ’ re go to take me to the police-st , ” he remark to sherlock holm . “ My cab ’ s at the door . If you ’ ll loos my leg I ’ ll walk down to it . I ’ m not so light to lift as I use to be. ” gregson and lestrad exchang glanc as if they thought thi proposit rather a bold one ; but holm at onc took the prison at hi word , and loosen the towel which we had bound round hi ancl . [ 23 ] He rose and stretch hi leg , as though to assur himself that they were free onc more . I rememb that I thought to myself , as I eye him , that I had seldom seen a more power built man ; and hi dark sunburn face bore an express of determin and energi which wa as formid as hi person strength . “ If there ’ s a vacant place for a chief of the polic , I reckon you are the man for it , ” he said , gaze with undisguis admir at my fellow-lodg . “ the way you kept on my trail wa a caution. ” “ you had better come with me , ” said holm to the two detect . “ I can drive you , ” said lestrad . “ good ! and gregson can come insid with me . you too , doctor , you have taken an interest in the case and may as well stick to us. ” I assent gladli , and we all descend togeth . our prison made no attempt at escap , but step calmli into the cab which had been hi , and we follow him . lestrad mount the box , whip up the hors , and brought us in a veri short time to our destin . We were usher into a small chamber where a polic inspector note down our prison ’ s name and the name of the men with whose murder he had been charg . the offici wa a white-fac unemot man , who went through hi duti in a dull mechan way . “ the prison will be put befor the magistr in the cours of the week , ” he said ; “ in the mean time , mr. jefferson hope , have you anyth that you wish to say ? I must warn you that your word will be taken down , and may be use against you. ” “ I ’ ve got a good deal to say , ” our prison said slowli . “ I want to tell you gentlemen all about it. ” “ hadn ’ t you better reserv that for your trial ? ” ask the inspector . “ I may never be tri , ” he answer . “ you needn ’ t look startl . It isn ’ t suicid I am think of . are you a doctor ? ” He turn hi fierc dark eye upon me as he ask thi last question . “ ye ; I am , ” I answer . “ then put your hand here , ” he said , with a smile , motion with hi manacl wrist toward hi chest . I did so ; and becam at onc consciou of an extraordinari throb and commot which wa go on insid . the wall of hi chest seem to thrill and quiver as a frail build would do insid when some power engin wa at work . In the silenc of the room I could hear a dull hum and buzz nois which proceed from the same sourc . “ whi , ” I cri , “ you have an aortic aneur ! ” “ that ’ s what they call it , ” he said , placidli . “ I went to a doctor last week about it , and he told me that it is bound to burst befor mani day pass . It ha been get wors for year . I got it from over-exposur and under-feed among the salt lake mountain . I ’ ve done my work now , and I don ’ t care how soon I go , but I should like to leav some account of the busi behind me . I don ’ t want to be rememb as a common cut-throat. ” the inspector and the two detect had a hurri discuss as to the advis of allow him to tell hi stori . “ Do you consid , doctor , that there is immedi danger ? ” the former ask , [ 24 ] “ most certainli there is , ” I answer . “ In that case it is clearli our duti , in the interest of justic , to take hi statement , ” said the inspector . “ you are at liberti , sir , to give your account , which I again warn you will be taken down. ” “ I ’ ll sit down , with your leav , ” the prison said , suit the action to the word . “ thi aneur of mine make me easili tire , and the tussl we had half an hour ago ha not mend matter . I ’ m on the brink of the grave , and I am not like to lie to you . everi word I say is the absolut truth , and how you use it is a matter of no consequ to me. ” with these word , jefferson hope lean back in hi chair and began the follow remark statement . He spoke in a calm and method manner , as though the event which he narrat were commonplac enough . I can vouch for the accuraci of the subjoin account , for I have had access to lestrad ’ s note-book , in which the prison ’ s word were taken down exactli as they were utter . “ It don ’ t much matter to you whi I hate these men , ” he said ; “ it ’ s enough that they were guilti of the death of two human be -- a father and a daughter -- and that they had , therefor , forfeit their own live . after the laps of time that ha pass sinc their crime , it wa imposs for me to secur a convict against them in ani court . I knew of their guilt though , and I determin that I should be judg , juri , and execution all roll into one . you ’ d have done the same , if you have ani manhood in you , if you had been in my place . “ that girl that I spoke of wa to have marri me twenti year ago . she wa forc into marri that same drebber , and broke her heart over it . I took the marriag ring from her dead finger , and I vow that hi die eye should rest upon that veri ring , and that hi last thought should be of the crime for which he wa punish . I have carri it about with me , and have follow him and hi accomplic over two contin until I caught them . they thought to tire me out , but they could not do it . If I die to-morrow , as is like enough , I die know that my work in thi world is done , and well done . they have perish , and by my hand . there is noth left for me to hope for , or to desir . “ they were rich and I wa poor , so that it wa no easi matter for me to follow them . when I got to london my pocket wa about empti , and I found that I must turn my hand to someth for my live . drive and ride are as natur to me as walk , so I appli at a cabown ’ s offic , and soon got employ . I wa to bring a certain sum a week to the owner , and whatev wa over that I might keep for myself . there wa seldom much over , but I manag to scrape along somehow . the hardest job wa to learn my way about , for I reckon that of all the maze that ever were contriv , thi citi is the most confus . I had a map besid me though , and when onc I had spot the princip hotel and station , I got on pretti well . “ It wa some time befor I found out where my two gentlemen were live ; but I inquir and inquir until at last I drop across them . they were at a boarding-hous at camberwel , over on the other side of the river . when onc I found them out I knew that I had them at my merci . I had grown my beard , and there wa no chanc of their recogn me . I would dog them and follow them until I saw my opportun . I wa determin that they should not escap me again . “ they were veri near do it for all that . Go where they would about london , I wa alway at their heel . sometim I follow them on my cab , and sometim on foot , but the former wa the best , for then they could not get away from me . It wa onli earli in the morn or late at night that I could earn anyth , so that I began to get behind hand with my employ . I did not mind that , howev , as long as I could lay my hand upon the men I want . “ they were veri cun , though . they must have thought that there wa some chanc of their be follow , for they would never go out alon , and never after nightfal . dure two week I drove behind them everi day , and never onc saw them separ . drebber himself wa drunk half the time , but stangerson wa not to be caught nap . I watch them late and earli , but never saw the ghost of a chanc ; but I wa not discourag , for someth told me that the hour had almost come . My onli fear wa that thi thing in my chest might burst a littl too soon and leav my work undon . “ At last , one even I wa drive up and down torquay terrac , as the street wa call in which they board , when I saw a cab drive up to their door . present some luggag wa brought out , and after a time drebber and stangerson follow it , and drove off . I whip up my hors and kept within sight of them , feel veri ill at eas , for I fear that they were go to shift their quarter . At euston station they got out , and I left a boy to hold my hors , and follow them on to the platform . I heard them ask for the liverpool train , and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be anoth for some hour . stangerson seem to be put out at that , but drebber wa rather pleas than otherwis . I got so close to them in the bustl that I could hear everi word that pass between them . drebber said that he had a littl busi of hi own to do , and that if the other would wait for him he would soon rejoin him . hi companion remonstr with him , and remind him that they had resolv to stick togeth . drebber answer that the matter wa a delic one , and that he must go alon . I could not catch what stangerson said to that , but the other burst out swear , and remind him that he wa noth more than hi paid servant , and that he must not presum to dictat to him . On that the secretari gave it up as a bad job , and simpli bargain with him that if he miss the last train he should rejoin him at halliday ’ s privat hotel ; to which drebber answer that he would be back on the platform befor eleven , and made hi way out of the station . “ the moment for which I had wait so long had at last come . I had my enemi within my power . togeth they could protect each other , but singli they were at my merci . I did not act , howev , with undu precipit . My plan were alreadi form . there is no satisfact in vengeanc unless the offend ha time to realiz who it is that strike him , and whi retribut ha come upon him . I had my plan arrang by which I should have the opportun of make the man who had wrong me understand that hi old sin had found him out . It chanc that some day befor a gentleman who had been engag in look over some hous in the brixton road had drop the key of one of them in my carriag . It wa claim that same even , and return ; but in the interv I had taken a mould of it , and had a duplic construct . By mean of thi I had access to at least one spot in thi great citi where I could reli upon be free from interrupt . how to get drebber to that hous wa the difficult problem which I had now to solv . “ He walk down the road and went into one or two liquor shop , stay for nearli half-an-hour in the last of them . when he came out he stagger in hi walk , and wa evid pretti well on . there wa a hansom just in front of me , and he hail it . I follow it so close that the nose of my hors wa within a yard of hi driver the whole way . We rattl across waterloo bridg and through mile of street , until , to my astonish , we found ourselv back in the terrac in which he had board . I could not imagin what hi intent wa in return there ; but I went on and pull up my cab a hundr yard or so from the hous . He enter it , and hi hansom drove away . give me a glass of water , if you pleas . My mouth get dri with the talking. ” I hand him the glass , and he drank it down . “ that ’ s better , ” he said . “ well , I wait for a quarter of an hour , or more , when suddenli there came a nois like peopl struggl insid the hous . next moment the door wa flung open and two men appear , one of whom wa drebber , and the other wa a young chap whom I had never seen befor . thi fellow had drebber by the collar , and when they came to the head of the step he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road . ‘ you hound , ’ he cri , shake hi stick at him ; ‘ I ’ ll teach you to insult an honest girl ! ’ He wa so hot that I think he would have thrash drebber with hi cudgel , onli that the cur stagger away down the road as fast as hi leg would carri him . He ran as far as the corner , and then , see my cab , he hail me and jump in . ‘ drive me to halliday ’ s privat hotel , ’ said he . “ when I had him fairli insid my cab , my heart jump so with joy that I fear lest at thi last moment my aneur might go wrong . I drove along slowli , weigh in my own mind what it wa best to do . I might take him right out into the countri , and there in some desert lane have my last interview with him . I had almost decid upon thi , when he solv the problem for me . the craze for drink had seiz him again , and he order me to pull up outsid a gin palac . He went in , leav word that I should wait for him . there he remain until close time , and when he came out he wa so far gone that I knew the game wa in my own hand . “ don ’ t imagin that I intend to kill him in cold blood . It would onli have been rigid justic if I had done so , but I could not bring myself to do it . I had long determin that he should have a show for hi life if he chose to take advantag of it . among the mani billet which I have fill in america dure my wander life , I wa onc janitor and sweeper out of the laboratori at york colleg . one day the professor wa lectur on poision , [ 25 ] and he show hi student some alkaloid , as he call it , which he had extract from some south american arrow poison , and which wa so power that the least grain meant instant death . I spot the bottl in which thi prepar wa kept , and when they were all gone , I help myself to a littl of it . I wa a fairli good dispens , so I work thi alkaloid into small , solubl pill , and each pill I put in a box with a similar pill made without the poison . I determin at the time that when I had my chanc , my gentlemen should each have a draw out of one of these box , while I ate the pill that remain . It would be quit as deadli , and a good deal less noisi than fire across a handkerchief . from that day I had alway my pill box about with me , and the time had now come when I wa to use them . “ It wa nearer one than twelv , and a wild , bleak night , blow hard and rain in torrent . dismal as it wa outsid , I wa glad within -- so glad that I could have shout out from pure exult . If ani of you gentlemen have ever pine for a thing , and long for it dure twenti long year , and then suddenli found it within your reach , you would understand my feel . I lit a cigar , and puf at it to steadi my nerv , but my hand were trembl , and my templ throb with excit . As I drove , I could see old john ferrier and sweet luci look at me out of the dark and smile at me , just as plain as I see you all in thi room . all the way they were ahead of me , one on each side of the hors until I pull up at the hous in the brixton road . “ there wa not a soul to be seen , nor a sound to be heard , except the drip of the rain . when I look in at the window , I found drebber all huddl togeth in a drunken sleep . I shook him by the arm , ‘ It ’ s time to get out , ’ I said . “ ‘ all right , cabbi , ’ said he . “ I suppos he thought we had come to the hotel that he had mention , for he got out without anoth word , and follow me down the garden . I had to walk besid him to keep him steadi , for he wa still a littl top-heavi . when we came to the door , I open it , and led him into the front room . I give you my word that all the way , the father and the daughter were walk in front of us . “ ‘ It ’ s infern dark , ’ said he , stamp about . “ ‘ We ’ ll soon have a light , ’ I said , strike a match and put it to a wax candl which I had brought with me . ‘ now , enoch drebber , ’ I continu , turn to him , and hold the light to my own face , ‘ who am I ? ’ “ He gaze at me with blear , drunken eye for a moment , and then I saw a horror spring up in them , and convuls hi whole featur , which show me that he knew me . He stagger back with a livid face , and I saw the perspir break out upon hi brow , while hi teeth chatter in hi head . At the sight , I lean my back against the door and laugh loud and long . I had alway known that vengeanc would be sweet , but I had never hope for the content of soul which now possess me . “ ‘ you dog ! ’ I said ; ‘ I have hunt you from salt lake citi to st. petersburg , and you have alway escap me . now , at last your wander have come to an end , for either you or I shall never see to-morrow ’ s sun rise. ’ He shrunk still further away as I spoke , and I could see on hi face that he thought I wa mad . So I wa for the time . the puls in my templ beat like sledge-hamm , and I believ I would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gush from my nose and reliev me . “ ‘ what do you think of luci ferrier now ? ’ I cri , lock the door , and shake the key in hi face . ‘ punish ha been slow in come , but it ha overtaken you at last. ’ I saw hi coward lip trembl as I spoke . He would have beg for hi life , but he knew well that it wa useless . “ ‘ would you murder me ? ’ he stammer . “ ‘ there is no murder , ’ I answer . ‘ who talk of murder a mad dog ? what merci had you upon my poor darl , when you drag her from her slaughter father , and bore her away to your accurs and shameless harem. ’ “ ‘ It wa not I who kill her father , ’ he cri . “ ‘ but it wa you who broke her innoc heart , ’ I shriek , thrust the box befor him . ‘ let the high god judg between us . choos and eat . there is death in one and life in the other . I shall take what you leav . let us see if there is justic upon the earth , or if we are rule by chance. ’ “ He cower away with wild cri and prayer for merci , but I drew my knife and held it to hi throat until he had obey me . then I swallow the other , and we stood face one anoth in silenc for a minut or more , wait to see which wa to live and which wa to die . shall I ever forget the look which came over hi face when the first warn pang told him that the poison wa in hi system ? I laugh as I saw it , and held luci ’ s marriag ring in front of hi eye . It wa but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid is rapid . A spasm of pain contort hi featur ; he threw hi hand out in front of him , stagger , and then , with a hoars cri , fell heavili upon the floor . I turn him over with my foot , and place my hand upon hi heart . there wa no movement . He wa dead ! “ the blood had been stream from my nose , but I had taken no notic of it . I don ’ t know what it wa that put it into my head to write upon the wall with it . perhap it wa some mischiev idea of set the polic upon a wrong track , for I felt light-heart and cheer . I rememb a german be found in new york with rach written up abov him , and it wa argu at the time in the newspap that the secret societi must have done it . I guess that what puzzl the new yorker would puzzl the london , so I dip my finger in my own blood and print it on a conveni place on the wall . then I walk down to my cab and found that there wa nobodi about , and that the night wa still veri wild . I had driven some distanc when I put my hand into the pocket in which I usual kept luci ’ s ring , and found that it wa not there . I wa thunderstruck at thi , for it wa the onli memento that I had of her . think that I might have drop it when I stoop over drebber ’ s bodi , I drove back , and leav my cab in a side street , I went boldli up to the hous -- for I wa readi to dare anyth rather than lose the ring . when I arriv there , I walk right into the arm of a police-offic who wa come out , and onli manag to disarm hi suspicion by pretend to be hopelessli drunk . “ that wa how enoch drebber came to hi end . all I had to do then wa to do as much for stangerson , and so pay off john ferrier ’ s debt . I knew that he wa stay at halliday ’ s privat hotel , and I hung about all day , but he never came out . [ 26 ] fanci that he suspect someth when drebber fail to put in an appear . He wa cun , wa stangerson , and alway on hi guard . If he thought he could keep me off by stay indoor he wa veri much mistaken . I soon found out which wa the window of hi bedroom , and earli next morn I took advantag of some ladder which were lie in the lane behind the hotel , and so made my way into hi room in the grey of the dawn . I woke him up and told him that the hour had come when he wa to answer for the life he had taken so long befor . I describ drebber ’ s death to him , and I gave him the same choic of the poison pill . instead of grasp at the chanc of safeti which that offer him , he sprang from hi bed and flew at my throat . In self-def I stab him to the heart . It would have been the same in ani case , for provid would never have allow hi guilti hand to pick out anyth but the poison . “ I have littl more to say , and it ’ s as well , for I am about done up . I went on cab it for a day or so , intend to keep at it until I could save enough to take me back to america . I wa stand in the yard when a rag youngster ask if there wa a cabbi there call jefferson hope , and said that hi cab wa want by a gentleman at 221b , baker street . I went round , suspect no harm , and the next thing I knew , thi young man here had the bracelet on my wrist , and as neatli snackl [ 27 ] as ever I saw in my life . that ’ s the whole of my stori , gentlemen . you may consid me to be a murder ; but I hold that I am just as much an offic of justic as you are. ” So thrill had the man ’ s narr been , and hi manner wa so impress that we had sat silent and absorb . even the profession detect , _blasé_ as they were in everi detail of crime , appear to be keenli interest in the man ’ s stori . when he finish we sat for some minut in a still which wa onli broken by the scratch of lestrad ’ s pencil as he gave the finish touch to hi shorthand account . “ there is onli one point on which I should like a littl more inform , ” sherlock holm said at last . “ who wa your accomplic who came for the ring which I advertis ? ” the prison wink at my friend jocos . “ I can tell my own secret , ” he said , “ but I don ’ t get other peopl into troubl . I saw your advertis , and I thought it might be a plant , or it might be the ring which I want . My friend volunt to go and see . I think you ’ ll own he did it smartly. ” “ not a doubt of that , ” said holm heartili . “ now , gentlemen , ” the inspector remark grave , “ the form of the law must be compli with . On thursday the prison will be brought befor the magistr , and your attend will be requir . until then I will be respons for him. ” He rang the bell as he spoke , and jefferson hope wa led off by a coupl of warder , while my friend and I made our way out of the station and took a cab back to baker street . chapter vii . the conclus . WE had all been warn to appear befor the magistr upon the thursday ; but when the thursday came there wa no occas for our testimoni . A higher judg had taken the matter in hand , and jefferson hope had been summon befor a tribun where strict justic would be mete out to him . On the veri night after hi captur the aneur burst , and he wa found in the morn stretch upon the floor of the cell , with a placid smile upon hi face , as though he had been abl in hi die moment to look back upon a use life , and on work well done . “ gregson and lestrad will be wild about hi death , ” holm remark , as we chat it over next even . “ where will their grand advertis be now ? ” “ I don ’ t see that they had veri much to do with hi captur , ” I answer . “ what you do in thi world is a matter of no consequ , ” return my companion , bitterli . “ the question is , what can you make peopl believ that you have done . never mind , ” he continu , more brightli , after a paus . “ I would not have miss the investig for anyth . there ha been no better case within my recollect . simpl as it wa , there were sever most instruct point about it. ” “ simpl ! ” I ejacul . “ well , realli , it can hardli be describ as otherwis , ” said sherlock holm , smile at my surpris . “ the proof of it intrins simplic is , that without ani help save a few veri ordinari deduct I wa abl to lay my hand upon the crimin within three days. ” “ that is true , ” said I . “ I have alreadi explain to you that what is out of the common is usual a guid rather than a hindranc . In solv a problem of thi sort , the grand thing is to be abl to reason backward . that is a veri use accomplish , and a veri easi one , but peopl do not practis it much . In the every-day affair of life it is more use to reason forward , and so the other come to be neglect . there are fifti who can reason synthet for one who can reason analytically. ” “ I confess , ” said I , “ that I do not quit follow you. ” “ I hardli expect that you would . let me see if I can make it clearer . most peopl , if you describ a train of event to them , will tell you what the result would be . they can put those event togeth in their mind , and argu from them that someth will come to pass . there are few peopl , howev , who , if you told them a result , would be abl to evolv from their own inner conscious what the step were which led up to that result . thi power is what I mean when I talk of reason backward , or analytically. ” “ I understand , ” said I . “ now thi wa a case in which you were given the result and had to find everyth els for yourself . now let me endeavour to show you the differ step in my reason . To begin at the begin . I approach the hous , as you know , on foot , and with my mind entir free from all impress . I natur began by examin the roadway , and there , as I have alreadi explain to you , I saw clearli the mark of a cab , which , I ascertain by inquiri , must have been there dure the night . I satisfi myself that it wa a cab and not a privat carriag by the narrow gaug of the wheel . the ordinari london growler is consider less wide than a gentleman ’ s brougham . “ thi wa the first point gain . I then walk slowli down the garden path , which happen to be compos of a clay soil , peculiarli suitabl for take impress . No doubt it appear to you to be a mere trampl line of slush , but to my train eye everi mark upon it surfac had a mean . there is no branch of detect scienc which is so import and so much neglect as the art of trace footstep . happili , I have alway laid great stress upon it , and much practic ha made it second natur to me . I saw the heavi footmark of the constabl , but I saw also the track of the two men who had first pass through the garden . It wa easi to tell that they had been befor the other , becaus in place their mark had been entir obliter by the other come upon the top of them . In thi way my second link wa form , which told me that the nocturn visitor were two in number , one remark for hi height ( as I calcul from the length of hi stride ) , and the other fashion dress , to judg from the small and eleg impress left by hi boot . “ On enter the hous thi last infer wa confirm . My well-boot man lay befor me . the tall one , then , had done the murder , if murder there wa . there wa no wound upon the dead man ’ s person , but the agit express upon hi face assur me that he had foreseen hi fate befor it came upon him . men who die from heart diseas , or ani sudden natur caus , never by ani chanc exhibit agit upon their featur . have snif the dead man ’ s lip I detect a slightli sour smell , and I came to the conclus that he had had poison forc upon him . again , I argu that it had been forc upon him from the hatr and fear express upon hi face . By the method of exclus , I had arriv at thi result , for no other hypothesi would meet the fact . Do not imagin that it wa a veri unheard of idea . the forcibl administr of poison is by no mean a new thing in crimin annal . the case of dolski in odessa , and of leturi in montpelli , will occur at onc to ani toxicologist . “ and now came the great question as to the reason whi . robberi had not been the object of the murder , for noth wa taken . wa it polit , then , or wa it a woman ? that wa the question which confront me . I wa inclin from the first to the latter supposit . polit assassin are onli too glad to do their work and to fli . thi murder had , on the contrari , been done most deliber , and the perpetr had left hi track all over the room , show that he had been there all the time . It must have been a privat wrong , and not a polit one , which call for such a method reveng . when the inscript wa discov upon the wall I wa more inclin than ever to my opinion . the thing wa too evid a blind . when the ring wa found , howev , it settl the question . clearli the murder had use it to remind hi victim of some dead or absent woman . It wa at thi point that I ask gregson whether he had enquir in hi telegram to cleveland as to ani particular point in mr. drebber ’ s former career . He answer , you rememb , in the neg . “ I then proceed to make a care examin of the room , which confirm me in my opinion as to the murder ’ s height , and furnish me with the addit detail as to the trichinopoli cigar and the length of hi nail . I had alreadi come to the conclus , sinc there were no sign of a struggl , that the blood which cover the floor had burst from the murder ’ s nose in hi excit . I could perceiv that the track of blood coincid with the track of hi feet . It is seldom that ani man , unless he is veri full-blood , break out in thi way through emot , so I hazard the opinion that the crimin wa probabl a robust and ruddy-fac man . event prove that I had judg correctli . “ have left the hous , I proceed to do what gregson had neglect . I telegraph to the head of the polic at cleveland , limit my enquiri to the circumst connect with the marriag of enoch drebber . the answer wa conclus . It told me that drebber had alreadi appli for the protect of the law against an old rival in love , name jefferson hope , and that thi same hope wa at present in europ . I knew now that I held the clue to the mysteri in my hand , and all that remain wa to secur the murder . “ I had alreadi determin in my own mind that the man who had walk into the hous with drebber , wa none other than the man who had driven the cab . the mark in the road show me that the hors had wander on in a way which would have been imposs had there been anyon in charg of it . where , then , could the driver be , unless he were insid the hous ? again , it is absurd to suppos that ani sane man would carri out a deliber crime under the veri eye , as it were , of a third person , who wa sure to betray him . lastli , suppos one man wish to dog anoth through london , what better mean could he adopt than to turn cabdriv . all these consider led me to the irresist conclus that jefferson hope wa to be found among the jarvey of the metropoli . “ If he had been one there wa no reason to believ that he had ceas to be . On the contrari , from hi point of view , ani sudden chang would be like to draw attent to himself . He would , probabl , for a time at least , continu to perform hi duti . there wa no reason to suppos that he wa go under an assum name . whi should he chang hi name in a countri where no one knew hi origin one ? I therefor organ my street arab detect corp , and sent them systemat to everi cab proprietor in london until they ferret out the man that I want . how well they succeed , and how quickli I took advantag of it , are still fresh in your recollect . the murder of stangerson wa an incid which wa entir unexpect , but which could hardli in ani case have been prevent . through it , as you know , I came into possess of the pill , the exist of which I had alreadi surmis . you see the whole thing is a chain of logic sequenc without a break or flaw. ” “ It is wonder ! ” I cri . “ your merit should be publicli recogn . you should publish an account of the case . If you won ’ t , I will for you. ” “ you may do what you like , doctor , ” he answer . “ see here ! ” he continu , hand a paper over to me , “ look at thi ! ” It wa the _echo_ for the day , and the paragraph to which he point wa devot to the case in question . “ the public , ” it said , “ have lost a sensat treat through the sudden death of the man hope , who wa suspect of the murder of mr. enoch drebber and of mr. joseph stangerson . the detail of the case will probabl be never known now , though we are inform upon good author that the crime wa the result of an old stand and romant feud , in which love and mormon bore a part . It seem that both the victim belong , in their younger day , to the latter day saint , and hope , the deceas prison , hail also from salt lake citi . If the case ha had no other effect , it , at least , bring out in the most strike manner the effici of our detect polic forc , and will serv as a lesson to all foreign that they will do wise to settl their feud at home , and not to carri them on to british soil . It is an open secret that the credit of thi smart captur belong entir to the well-known scotland yard offici , messrs. lestrad and gregson . the man wa apprehend , it appear , in the room of a certain mr. sherlock holm , who ha himself , as an amateur , shown some talent in the detect line , and who , with such instructor , may hope in time to attain to some degre of their skill . It is expect that a testimoni of some sort will be present to the two offic as a fit recognit of their services. ” “ didn ’ t I tell you so when we start ? ” cri sherlock holm with a laugh . “ that ’ s the result of all our studi in scarlet : to get them a testimoni ! ” “ never mind , ” I answer , “ I have all the fact in my journal , and the public shall know them . In the meantim you must make yourself content by the conscious of success , like the roman miser -- “ ‘ populu me sibilat , at mihi plaudo ips domi simul ac nummo contemplor in arca. ’ ” origin transcrib ’ S note : [ footnot 1 : frontispiec , with the caption : “ He examin with hi glass the word upon the wall , go over everi letter of it with the most minut exactness. ” ( _page_ 23 . ) ] [ footnot 2 : “ john H. watson , m.d. ” : the initi letter in the name are capit , the other letter in small cap . all chapter titl are in small cap . the initi word of chapter are in small cap with first letter capit . ] [ footnot 3 : “ lodgings. ” : the period should be a comma , as in later edit . ] [ footnot 4 : “ hoemoglobin ” : should be haemoglobin . the o & e are concaten . ] [ footnot 5 : “ 221b ” : the B is in small cap ] [ footnot 6 : “ the lauriston garden mysteri ” : the table-of-cont list thi chapter as “ ... garden mysteri ” -- plural , and probabl more correct . ] [ footnot 7 : “ brought . `` ” : the text ha an extra double-quot mark ] [ footnot 8 : “ individu -- “ : illustr thi page , with the caption : “ As he spoke , hi nimbl finger were fli here , there , and everywhere. ” ] [ footnot 9 : “ manoeuvr ” : the o & e are concaten . ] [ footnot 10 : “ patent leather ” : the hyphen is miss . ] [ footnot 11 : “ condon ” : should be condon . ] [ footnot 13 : “ wages. ” : end quot is miss . ] [ footnot 14 : “ the first. ” : end quot is miss . ] [ footnot 15 : “ make much of ... ” : other edit complet thi sentenc with an “ it. ” but there is a gap in the text at thi point , and , given the context , it may have actual been an interject , a dash . the gap is just the right size for the charact “ it. ” and the start of a new sentenc , or for a “ -- -- “ ] [ footnot 16 : “ tho cushion ” : “ tho ” should be “ the ” ] [ footnot 19 : “ shove ” : later edit have “ show ” . the origin is clearli superior . ] [ footnot 20 : “ stare about ... ” : illustr , with the caption : “ one of them seiz the littl girl , and hoist her upon hi shoulder. ” ] [ footnot 21 : “ upon the ” : illustr , with the caption : “ As he watch it he saw it writh along the ground. ” ] [ footnot 22 : “ formerli ... ” : F , S , L , C in cap , other letter in thi line in small cap . ] [ footnot 23 : “ ancl ” : ankl . ] [ footnot 24 : “ ask , ” : should be “ asked. ” ] [ footnot 25 : “ poision ” : should be “ poison ” ] [ footnot 26 : “ ... fanci ” : should be “ I fanci ” . there is a gap in the text . ] [ footnot 27 : “ snackl ” : “ shackl ” in later text . ] [ footnot 29 : heber C. kembal , in one of hi sermon , allud to hi hundr wive under thi endear epithet . ] tale of terror and mysteri By sir arthur conan doyl content tale of terror the horror of the height the leather funnel the new catacomb the case of ladi sannox the terror of blue john gap the brazilian cat tale of mysteri the lost special the beetle-hunt the man with the watch the japan box the black doctor the jew 's breastplat tale of terror the horror of the height the idea that the extraordinari narr which ha been call the joyce-armstrong fragment is an elabor practic joke evolv by some unknown person , curs by a pervert and sinist sens of humour , ha now been abandon by all who have examin the matter . the most macabr and imagin of plotter would hesit befor link hi morbid fanci with the unquest and tragic fact which reinforc the statement . though the assert contain in it are amaz and even monstrou , it is none the less forc itself upon the gener intellig that they are true , and that we must readjust our idea to the new situat . thi world of our appear to be separ by a slight and precari margin of safeti from a most singular and unexpect danger . I will endeavour in thi narr , which reproduc the origin document in it necessarili somewhat fragmentari form , to lay befor the reader the whole of the fact up to date , prefac my statement by say that , if there be ani who doubt the narr of joyce-armstrong , there can be no question at all as to the fact concern lieuten myrtl , R. N. , and mr. hay connor , who undoubtedli met their end in the manner describ . the joyce-armstrong fragment wa found in the field which is call lower haycock , lie one mile to the westward of the villag of withyham , upon the kent and sussex border . It wa on the 15th septemb last that an agricultur labour , jame flynn , in the employ of mathew dodd , farmer , of the chauntri farm , withyham , perceiv a briar pipe lie near the footpath which skirt the hedg in lower haycock . A few pace farther on he pick up a pair of broken binocular glass . final , among some nettl in the ditch , he caught sight of a flat , canvas-back book , which prove to be a note-book with detach leav , some of which had come loos and were flutter along the base of the hedg . these he collect , but some , includ the first , were never recov , and leav a deplor hiatu in thi all-import statement . the note-book wa taken by the labour to hi master , who in turn show it to dr. J. H. atherton , of hartfield . thi gentleman at onc recogn the need for an expert examin , and the manuscript wa forward to the aero club in london , where it now lie . the first two page of the manuscript are miss . there is also one torn away at the end of the narr , though none of these affect the gener coher of the stori . It is conjectur that the miss open is concern with the record of mr. joyce-armstrong 's qualif as an aeronaut , which can be gather from other sourc and are admit to be unsurpass among the air-pilot of england . for mani year he ha been look upon as among the most dare and the most intellectu of fli men , a combin which ha enabl him to both invent and test sever new devic , includ the common gyroscop attach which is known by hi name . the main bodi of the manuscript is written neatli in ink , but the last few line are in pencil and are so rag as to be hardli legibl -- exactli , in fact , as they might be expect to appear if they were scribbl off hurriedli from the seat of a move aeroplan . there are , it may be ad , sever stain , both on the last page and on the outsid cover which have been pronounc by the home offic expert to be blood -- probabl human and certainli mammalian . the fact that someth close resembl the organ of malaria wa discov in thi blood , and that joyce-armstrong is known to have suffer from intermitt fever , is a remark exampl of the new weapon which modern scienc ha place in the hand of our detect . and now a word as to the person of the author of thi epoch-mak statement . joyce-armstrong , accord to the few friend who realli knew someth of the man , wa a poet and a dreamer , as well as a mechan and an inventor . He wa a man of consider wealth , much of which he had spent in the pursuit of hi aeronaut hobbi . He had four privat aeroplan in hi hangar near deviz , and is said to have made no fewer than one hundr and seventi ascent in the cours of last year . He wa a retir man with dark mood , in which he would avoid the societi of hi fellow . captain dangerfield , who knew him better than anyon , say that there were time when hi eccentr threaten to develop into someth more seriou . hi habit of carri a shot-gun with him in hi aeroplan wa one manifest of it . anoth wa the morbid effect which the fall of lieuten myrtl had upon hi mind . myrtl , who wa attempt the height record , fell from an altitud of someth over thirti thousand feet . horribl to narrat , hi head wa entir obliter , though hi bodi and limb preserv their configur . At everi gather of airmen , joyce-armstrong , accord to dangerfield , would ask , with an enigmat smile : `` and where , pray , is myrtl 's head ? '' On anoth occas after dinner , at the mess of the fli school on salisburi plain , he start a debat as to what will be the most perman danger which airmen will have to encount . have listen to success opinion as to air-pocket , faulti construct , and over-bank , he end by shrug hi shoulder and refus to put forward hi own view , though he gave the impress that they differ from ani advanc by hi companion . It is worth remark that after hi own complet disappear it wa found that hi privat affair were arrang with a precis which may show that he had a strong premonit of disast . with these essenti explan I will now give the narr exactli as it stand , begin at page three of the blood-soak note-book : `` nevertheless , when I dine at rheim with coselli and gustav raymond I found that neither of them wa awar of ani particular danger in the higher layer of the atmospher . I did not actual say what wa in my thought , but I got so near to it that if they had ani correspond idea they could not have fail to express it . but then they are two empti , vainglori fellow with no thought beyond see their silli name in the newspap . It is interest to note that neither of them had ever been much beyond the twenty-thousand-foot level . Of cours , men have been higher than thi both in balloon and in the ascent of mountain . It must be well abov that point that the aeroplan enter the danger zone -- alway presum that my premonit are correct . `` aeroplan ha been with us now for more than twenti year , and one might well ask : whi should thi peril be onli reveal itself in our day ? the answer is obviou . In the old day of weak engin , when a hundr horse-pow gnome or green wa consid ampl for everi need , the flight were veri restrict . now that three hundr horse-pow is the rule rather than the except , visit to the upper layer have becom easier and more common . some of us can rememb how , in our youth , garro made a world-wid reput by attain nineteen thousand feet , and it wa consid a remark achiev to fli over the alp . our standard now ha been immeasur rais , and there are twenti high flight for one in former year . mani of them have been undertaken with impun . the thirty-thousand-foot level ha been reach time after time with no discomfort beyond cold and asthma . what doe thi prove ? A visitor might descend upon thi planet a thousand time and never see a tiger . yet tiger exist , and if he chanc to come down into a jungl he might be devour . there are jungl of the upper air , and there are wors thing than tiger which inhabit them . I believ in time they will map these jungl accur out . even at the present moment I could name two of them . one of them lie over the pau-biarritz district of franc . anoth is just over my head as I write here in my hous in wiltshir . I rather think there is a third in the homburg-wiesbaden district . `` It wa the disappear of the airmen that first set me think . Of cours , everyon said that they had fallen into the sea , but that did not satisfi me at all . first , there wa verrier in franc ; hi machin wa found near bayonn , but they never got hi bodi . there wa the case of baxter also , who vanish , though hi engin and some of the iron fix were found in a wood in leicestershir . In that case , dr. middleton , of amesburi , who wa watch the flight with a telescop , declar that just befor the cloud obscur the view he saw the machin , which wa at an enorm height , suddenli rise perpendicularli upward in a success of jerk in a manner that he would have thought to be imposs . that wa the last seen of baxter . there wa a correspond in the paper , but it never led to anyth . there were sever other similar case , and then there wa the death of hay connor . what a cackl there wa about an unsolv mysteri of the air , and what column in the halfpenni paper , and yet how littl wa ever done to get to the bottom of the busi ! He came down in a tremend vol-plan from an unknown height . He never got off hi machin and die in hi pilot 's seat . die of what ? 'heart diseas , ' said the doctor . rubbish ! hay connor 's heart wa as sound as mine is . what did venabl say ? venabl wa the onli man who wa at hi side when he die . He said that he wa shiver and look like a man who had been badli scare . 'di of fright , ' said venabl , but could not imagin what he wa frighten about . onli said one word to venabl , which sound like 'monstrou . ' they could make noth of that at the inquest . but I could make someth of it . monster ! that wa the last word of poor harri hay connor . and he did die of fright , just as venabl thought . `` and then there wa myrtl 's head . Do you realli believ -- doe anybodi realli believ -- that a man 's head could be driven clean into hi bodi by the forc of a fall ? well , perhap it may be possibl , but I , for one , have never believ that it wa so with myrtl . and the greas upon hi cloth -- 'all slimi with greas , ' said somebodi at the inquest . queer that nobodi got think after that ! I did -- but , then , I had been think for a good long time . I 've made three ascent -- how dangerfield use to chaff me about my shot-gun -- but I 've never been high enough . now , with thi new , light paul veron machin and it one hundr and seventy-f robur , I should easili touch the thirti thousand tomorrow . I 'll have a shot at the record . mayb I shall have a shot at someth els as well . Of cours , it 's danger . If a fellow want to avoid danger he had best keep out of fli altogeth and subsid final into flannel slipper and a dressing-gown . but I 'll visit the air-jungl tomorrow -- and if there 's anyth there I shall know it . If I return , I 'll find myself a bit of a celebr . If I do n't thi note-book may explain what I am tri to do , and how I lost my life in do it . but no drivel about accid or mysteri , if you pleas . `` I chose my paul veron monoplan for the job . there 's noth like a monoplan when real work is to be done . beaumont found that out in veri earli day . for one thing it doe n't mind damp , and the weather look as if we should be in the cloud all the time . It 's a bonni littl model and answer my hand like a tender-mouth hors . the engin is a ten-cylind rotari robur work up to one hundr and seventy-f . It ha all the modern improv -- enclos fuselag , high-curv land skid , brake , gyroscop steadier , and three speed , work by an alter of the angl of the plane upon the venetian-blind principl . I took a shot-gun with me and a dozen cartridg fill with buck-shot . you should have seen the face of perkin , my old mechan , when I direct him to put them in . I wa dress like an arctic explor , with two jersey under my overal , thick sock insid my pad boot , a storm-cap with flap , and my talc goggl . It wa stifl outsid the hangar , but I wa go for the summit of the himalaya , and had to dress for the part . perkin knew there wa someth on and implor me to take him with me . perhap I should if I were use the biplan , but a monoplan is a one-man show -- if you want to get the last foot of life out of it . Of cours , I took an oxygen bag ; the man who goe for the altitud record without one will either be frozen or smother -- or both . `` I had a good look at the plane , the rudder-bar , and the elev lever befor I got in . everyth wa in order so far as I could see . then I switch on my engin and found that she wa run sweetli . when they let her go she rose almost at onc upon the lowest speed . I circl my home field onc or twice just to warm her up , and then with a wave to perkin and the other , I flatten out my plane and put her on her highest . she skim like a swallow down wind for eight or ten mile until I turn her nose up a littl and she began to climb in a great spiral for the cloud-bank abov me . It 's all-import to rise slowli and adapt yourself to the pressur as you go . `` It wa a close , warm day for an english septemb , and there wa the hush and heavi of impend rain . now and then there came sudden puff of wind from the south-west -- one of them so gusti and unexpect that it caught me nap and turn me half-round for an instant . I rememb the time when gust and whirl and air-pocket use to be thing of danger -- befor we learn to put an overmast power into our engin . just as I reach the cloud-bank , with the altimet mark three thousand , down came the rain . My word , how it pour ! It drum upon my wing and lash against my face , blur my glass so that I could hardli see . I got down on to a low speed , for it wa pain to travel against it . As I got higher it becam hail , and I had to turn tail to it . one of my cylind wa out of action -- a dirti plug , I should imagin , but still I wa rise steadili with plenti of power . after a bit the troubl pass , whatev it wa , and I heard the full , deep-throat purr -- the ten sing as one . that 's where the beauti of our modern silenc come in . We can at last control our engin by ear . how they squeal and squeak and sob when they are in troubl ! all those cri for help were wast in the old day , when everi sound wa swallow up by the monstrou racket of the machin . If onli the earli aviat could come back to see the beauti and perfect of the mechan which have been bought at the cost of their live ! `` about nine-thirti I wa near the cloud . down below me , all blur and shadow with rain , lay the vast expans of salisburi plain . half a dozen fli machin were do hackwork at the thousand-foot level , look like littl black swallow against the green background . I dare say they were wonder what I wa do up in cloud-land . suddenli a grey curtain drew across beneath me and the wet fold of vapour were swirl round my face . It wa clammili cold and miser . but I wa abov the hail-storm , and that wa someth gain . the cloud wa as dark and thick as a london fog . In my anxieti to get clear , I cock her nose up until the automat alarm-bel rang , and I actual began to slide backward . My sop and drip wing had made me heavier than I thought , but present I wa in lighter cloud , and soon had clear the first layer . there wa a second -- opal-colour and fleeci -- at a great height abov my head , a white , unbroken ceil abov , and a dark , unbroken floor below , with the monoplan labour upward upon a vast spiral between them . It is deadli lone in these cloud-spac . onc a great flight of some small water-bird went past me , fli veri fast to the westward . the quick whir of their wing and their music cri were cheeri to my ear . I fanci that they were teal , but I am a wretch zoologist . now that we human have becom bird we must realli learn to know our brethren by sight . `` the wind down beneath me whirl and sway the broad cloud-plain . onc a great eddi form in it , a whirlpool of vapour , and through it , as down a funnel , I caught sight of the distant world . A larg white biplan wa pass at a vast depth beneath me . I fanci it wa the morn mail servic betwixt bristol and london . then the drift swirl inward again and the great solitud wa unbroken . `` just after ten I touch the lower edg of the upper cloud-stratum . It consist of fine diaphan vapour drift swiftli from the westward . the wind had been steadili rise all thi time and it wa now blow a sharp breez -- twenty-eight an hour by my gaug . alreadi it wa veri cold , though my altimet onli mark nine thousand . the engin were work beauti , and we went drone steadili upward . the cloud-bank wa thicker than I had expect , but at last it thin out into a golden mist befor me , and then in an instant I had shot out from it , and there wa an uncloud sky and a brilliant sun abov my head -- all blue and gold abov , all shine silver below , one vast , glimmer plain as far as my eye could reach . It wa a quarter past ten o'clock , and the barograph needl point to twelv thousand eight hundr . Up I went and up , my ear concentr upon the deep pur of my motor , my eye busi alway with the watch , the revolut indic , the petrol lever , and the oil pump . No wonder aviat are said to be a fearless race . with so mani thing to think of there is no time to troubl about oneself . about thi time I note how unreli is the compass when abov a certain height from earth . At fifteen thousand feet mine wa point east and a point south . the sun and the wind gave me my true bear . `` I had hope to reach an etern still in these high altitud , but with everi thousand feet of ascent the gale grew stronger . My machin groan and trembl in everi joint and rivet as she face it , and swept away like a sheet of paper when I bank her on the turn , skim down wind at a greater pace , perhap , than ever mortal man ha move . yet I had alway to turn again and tack up in the wind 's eye , for it wa not mere a height record that I wa after . By all my calcul it wa abov littl wiltshir that my air-jungl lay , and all my labour might be lost if I struck the outer layer at some farther point . `` when I reach the nineteen-thousand-foot level , which wa about midday , the wind wa so sever that I look with some anxieti to the stay of my wing , expect momentarili to see them snap or slacken . I even cast loos the parachut behind me , and fasten it hook into the ring of my leathern belt , so as to be readi for the worst . now wa the time when a bit of scamp work by the mechan is paid for by the life of the aeronaut . but she held togeth brave . everi cord and strut wa hum and vibrat like so mani harp-str , but it wa gloriou to see how , for all the beat and the buffet , she wa still the conqueror of natur and the mistress of the sky . there is sure someth divin in man himself that he should rise so superior to the limit which creation seem to impos -- rise , too , by such unselfish , heroic devot as thi air-conquest ha shown . talk of human degener ! when ha such a stori as thi been written in the annal of our race ? `` these were the thought in my head as I climb that monstrou , inclin plane with the wind sometim beat in my face and sometim whistl behind my ear , while the cloud-land beneath me fell away to such a distanc that the fold and hummock of silver had all smooth out into one flat , shine plain . but suddenli I had a horribl and unpreced experi . I have known befor what it is to be in what our neighbour have call a tourbillon , but never on such a scale as thi . that huge , sweep river of wind of which I have spoken had , as it appear , whirlpool within it which were as monstrou as itself . without a moment 's warn I wa drag suddenli into the heart of one . I spun round for a minut or two with such veloc that I almost lost my sens , and then fell suddenli , left wing foremost , down the vacuum funnel in the centr . I drop like a stone , and lost nearli a thousand feet . It wa onli my belt that kept me in my seat , and the shock and breathless left me hang half-insens over the side of the fuselag . but I am alway capabl of a suprem effort -- it is my one great merit as an aviat . I wa consciou that the descent wa slower . the whirlpool wa a cone rather than a funnel , and I had come to the apex . with a terrif wrench , throw my weight all to one side , I level my plane and brought her head away from the wind . In an instant I had shot out of the eddi and wa skim down the sky . then , shaken but victori , I turn her nose up and began onc more my steadi grind on the upward spiral . I took a larg sweep to avoid the danger-spot of the whirlpool , and soon I wa safe abov it . just after one o'clock I wa twenty-on thousand feet abov the sea-level . To my great joy I had top the gale , and with everi hundr feet of ascent the air grew stiller . On the other hand , it wa veri cold , and I wa consciou of that peculiar nausea which goe with rarefact of the air . for the first time I unscrew the mouth of my oxygen bag and took an occasion whiff of the gloriou ga . I could feel it run like a cordial through my vein , and I wa exhilar almost to the point of drunken . I shout and sang as I soar upward into the cold , still outer world . `` It is veri clear to me that the insens which came upon glaisher , and in a lesser degre upon coxwel , when , in 1862 , they ascend in a balloon to the height of thirti thousand feet , wa due to the extrem speed with which a perpendicular ascent is made . do it at an easi gradient and accustom oneself to the lessen barometr pressur by slow degre , there are no such dread symptom . At the same great height I found that even without my oxygen inhal I could breath without undu distress . It wa bitterli cold , howev , and my thermomet wa at zero , fahrenheit . At one-thirti I wa nearli seven mile abov the surfac of the earth , and still ascend steadili . I found , howev , that the rarefi air wa give markedli less support to my plane , and that my angl of ascent had to be consider lower in consequ . It wa alreadi clear that even with my light weight and strong engine-pow there wa a point in front of me where I should be held . To make matter wors , one of my sparking-plug wa in troubl again and there wa intermitt misfir in the engin . My heart wa heavi with the fear of failur . `` It wa about that time that I had a most extraordinari experi . someth whizz past me in a trail of smoke and explod with a loud , hiss sound , send forth a cloud of steam . for the instant I could not imagin what had happen . then I rememb that the earth is for ever be bombard by meteor stone , and would be hardli inhabit were they not in nearli everi case turn to vapour in the outer layer of the atmospher . here is a new danger for the high-altitud man , for two other pass me when I wa near the forty-thousand-foot mark . I can not doubt that at the edg of the earth 's envelop the risk would be a veri real one . `` My barograph needl mark forty-on thousand three hundr when I becam awar that I could go no farther . physic , the strain wa not as yet greater than I could bear but my machin had reach it limit . the attenu air gave no firm support to the wing , and the least tilt develop into side-slip , while she seem sluggish on her control . possibl , had the engin been at it best , anoth thousand feet might have been within our capac , but it wa still misfir , and two out of the ten cylind appear to be out of action . If I had not alreadi reach the zone for which I wa search then I should never see it upon thi journey . but wa it not possibl that I had attain it ? soar in circl like a monstrou hawk upon the forty-thousand-foot level I let the monoplan guid herself , and with my mannheim glass I made a care observ of my surround . the heaven were perfectli clear ; there wa no indic of those danger which I had imagin . `` I have said that I wa soar in circl . It struck me suddenli that I would do well to take a wider sweep and open up a new airtract . If the hunter enter an earth-jungl he would drive through it if he wish to find hi game . My reason had led me to believ that the air-jungl which I had imagin lay somewher over wiltshir . thi should be to the south and west of me . I took my bear from the sun , for the compass wa hopeless and no trace of earth wa to be seen -- noth but the distant , silver cloud-plain . howev , I got my direct as best I might and kept her head straight to the mark . I reckon that my petrol suppli would not last for more than anoth hour or so , but I could afford to use it to the last drop , sinc a singl magnific vol-plan could at ani time take me to the earth . `` suddenli I wa awar of someth new . the air in front of me had lost it crystal clear . It wa full of long , rag wisp of someth which I can onli compar to veri fine cigarett smoke . It hung about in wreath and coil , turn and twist slowli in the sunlight . As the monoplan shot through it , I wa awar of a faint tast of oil upon my lip , and there wa a greasi scum upon the woodwork of the machin . some infinit fine organ matter appear to be suspend in the atmospher . there wa no life there . It wa inchoat and diffus , extend for mani squar acr and then fring off into the void . No , it wa not life . but might it not be the remain of life ? abov all , might it not be the food of life , of monstrou life , even as the humbl greas of the ocean is the food for the mighti whale ? the thought wa in my mind when my eye look upward and I saw the most wonder vision that ever man ha seen . can I hope to convey it to you even as I saw it myself last thursday ? `` conceiv a jelly-fish such as sail in our summer sea , bell-shap and of enorm size -- far larger , I should judg , than the dome of st. paul 's . It wa of a light pink colour vein with a delic green , but the whole huge fabric so tenuou that it wa but a fairi outlin against the dark blue sky . It pulsat with a delic and regular rhythm . from it there depend two long , droop , green tentacl , which sway slowli backward and forward . thi gorgeou vision pass gentli with noiseless digniti over my head , as light and fragil as a soap-bubbl , and drift upon it state way . `` I had half-turn my monoplan , that I might look after thi beauti creatur , when , in a moment , I found myself amidst a perfect fleet of them , of all size , but none so larg as the first . some were quit small , but the major about as big as an averag balloon , and with much the same curvatur at the top . there wa in them a delicaci of textur and colour which remind me of the finest venetian glass . pale shade of pink and green were the prevail tint , but all had a love iridesc where the sun shimmer through their dainti form . some hundr of them drift past me , a wonder fairi squadron of strang unknown argosi of the sky -- creatur whose form and substanc were so attun to these pure height that one could not conceiv anyth so delic within actual sight or sound of earth . `` but soon my attent wa drawn to a new phenomenon -- the serpent of the outer air . these were long , thin , fantast coil of vapour-lik materi , which turn and twist with great speed , fli round and round at such a pace that the eye could hardli follow them . some of these ghost-lik creatur were twenti or thirti feet long , but it wa difficult to tell their girth , for their outlin wa so hazi that it seem to fade away into the air around them . these air-snak were of a veri light grey or smoke colour , with some darker line within , which gave the impress of a definit organ . one of them whisk past my veri face , and I wa consciou of a cold , clammi contact , but their composit wa so unsubstanti that I could not connect them with ani thought of physic danger , ani more than the beauti bell-lik creatur which had preced them . there wa no more solid in their frame than in the float spume from a broken wave . `` but a more terribl experi wa in store for me . float downward from a great height there came a purplish patch of vapour , small as I saw it first , but rapidli enlarg as it approach me , until it appear to be hundr of squar feet in size . though fashion of some transpar , jelly-lik substanc , it wa none the less of much more definit outlin and solid consist than anyth which I had seen befor . there were more trace , too , of a physic organ , especi two vast , shadowi , circular plate upon either side , which may have been eye , and a perfectli solid white project between them which wa as curv and cruel as the beak of a vultur . `` the whole aspect of thi monster wa formid and threaten , and it kept chang it colour from a veri light mauv to a dark , angri purpl so thick that it cast a shadow as it drift between my monoplan and the sun . On the upper curv of it huge bodi there were three great project which I can onli describ as enorm bubbl , and I wa convinc as I look at them that they were charg with some extrem light ga which serv to buoy up the misshapen and semi-solid mass in the rarefi air . the creatur move swiftli along , keep pace easili with the monoplan , and for twenti mile or more it form my horribl escort , hover over me like a bird of prey which is wait to pounc . it method of progress -- done so swiftli that it wa not easi to follow -- wa to throw out a long , glutin streamer in front of it , which in turn seem to draw forward the rest of the writh bodi . So elast and gelatin wa it that never for two success minut wa it the same shape , and yet each chang made it more threaten and loathsom than the last . `` I knew that it meant mischief . everi purpl flush of it hideou bodi told me so . the vagu , goggl eye which were turn alway upon me were cold and merciless in their viscid hatr . I dip the nose of my monoplan downward to escap it . As I did so , as quick as a flash there shot out a long tentacl from thi mass of float blubber , and it fell as light and sinuou as a whip-lash across the front of my machin . there wa a loud hiss as it lay for a moment across the hot engin , and it whisk itself into the air again , while the huge , flat bodi drew itself togeth as if in sudden pain . I dip to a vol-piqu , but again a tentacl fell over the monoplan and wa shorn off by the propel as easili as it might have cut through a smoke wreath . A long , glide , sticki , serpent-lik coil came from behind and caught me round the waist , drag me out of the fuselag . I tore at it , my finger sink into the smooth , glue-lik surfac , and for an instant I disengag myself , but onli to be caught round the boot by anoth coil , which gave me a jerk that tilt me almost on to my back . `` As I fell over I blaze off both barrel of my gun , though , inde , it wa like attack an eleph with a pea-shoot to imagin that ani human weapon could crippl that mighti bulk . and yet I aim better than I knew , for , with a loud report , one of the great blister upon the creatur 's back explod with the punctur of the buck-shot . It wa veri clear that my conjectur wa right , and that these vast , clear bladder were distend with some lift ga , for in an instant the huge , cloud-lik bodi turn sideway , writh desper to find it balanc , while the white beak snap and gape in horribl furi . but alreadi I had shot away on the steepest glide that I dare to attempt , my engin still full on , the fli propel and the forc of graviti shoot me downward like an aerolit . far behind me I saw a dull , purplish smudg grow swiftli smaller and merg into the blue sky behind it . I wa safe out of the deadli jungl of the outer air . `` onc out of danger I throttl my engin , for noth tear a machin to piec quicker than run on full power from a height . It wa a gloriou , spiral vol-plan from nearli eight mile of altitud -- first , to the level of the silver cloud-bank , then to that of the storm-cloud beneath it , and final , in beat rain , to the surfac of the earth . I saw the bristol channel beneath me as I broke from the cloud , but , have still some petrol in my tank , I got twenti mile inland befor I found myself strand in a field half a mile from the villag of ashcomb . there I got three tin of petrol from a pass motor-car , and at ten minut past six that even I alight gentli in my own home meadow at deviz , after such a journey as no mortal upon earth ha ever yet taken and live to tell the tale . I have seen the beauti and I have seen the horror of the height -- and greater beauti or greater horror than that is not within the ken of man . `` and now it is my plan to go onc again befor I give my result to the world . My reason for thi is that I must sure have someth to show by way of proof befor I lay such a tale befor my fellow-men . It is true that other will soon follow and will confirm what I have said , and yet I should wish to carri convict from the first . those love iridesc bubbl of the air should not be hard to captur . they drift slowli upon their way , and the swift monoplan could intercept their leisur cours . It is like enough that they would dissolv in the heavier layer of the atmospher , and that some small heap of amorph jelli might be all that I should bring to earth with me . and yet someth there would sure be by which I could substanti my stori . ye , I will go , even if I run a risk by do so . these purpl horror would not seem to be numer . It is probabl that I shall not see one . If I do I shall dive at onc . At the worst there is alway the shot-gun and my knowledg of ... '' here a page of the manuscript is unfortun miss . On the next page is written , in larg , straggl write : `` forty-thre thousand feet . I shall never see earth again . they are beneath me , three of them . god help me ; it is a dread death to die ! '' such in it entireti is the joyce-armstrong statement . Of the man noth ha sinc been seen . piec of hi shatter monoplan have been pick up in the preserv of mr. budd-lushington upon the border of kent and sussex , within a few mile of the spot where the note-book wa discov . If the unfortun aviat 's theori is correct that thi air-jungl , as he call it , exist onli over the south-west of england , then it would seem that he had fled from it at the full speed of hi monoplan , but had been overtaken and devour by these horribl creatur at some spot in the outer atmospher abov the place where the grim relic were found . the pictur of that monoplan skim down the sky , with the nameless terror fli as swiftli beneath it and cut it off alway from the earth while they gradual close in upon their victim , is one upon which a man who valu hi saniti would prefer not to dwell . there are mani , as I am awar , who still jeer at the fact which I have here set down , but even they must admit that joyce-armstrong ha disappear , and I would commend to them hi own word : `` thi note-book may explain what I am tri to do , and how I lost my life in do it . but no drivel about accid or mysteri , if you pleas . '' the leather funnel My friend , lionel dacr , live in the avenu de wagram , pari . hi hous wa that small one , with the iron rail and grass plot in front of it , on the left-hand side as you pass down from the arc de triomph . I fanci that it had been there long befor the avenu wa construct , for the grey tile were stain with lichen , and the wall were mildew and discolour with age . It look a small hous from the street , five window in front , if I rememb right , but it deepen into a singl long chamber at the back . It wa here that dacr had that singular librari of occult literatur , and the fantast curios which serv as a hobbi for himself , and an amus for hi friend . A wealthi man of refin and eccentr tast , he had spent much of hi life and fortun in gather togeth what wa said to be a uniqu privat collect of talmud , cabalist , and magic work , mani of them of great rariti and valu . hi tast lean toward the marvel and the monstrou , and I have heard that hi experi in the direct of the unknown have pass all the bound of civil and of decorum . To hi english friend he never allud to such matter , and took the tone of the student and virtuoso ; but a frenchman whose tast were of the same natur ha assur me that the worst excess of the black mass have been perpetr in that larg and lofti hall , which is line with the shelv of hi book , and the case of hi museum . dacr 's appear wa enough to show that hi deep interest in these psychic matter wa intellectu rather than spiritu . there wa no trace of ascetic upon hi heavi face , but there wa much mental forc in hi huge , dome-lik skull , which curv upward from amongst hi thin lock , like a snowpeak abov it fring of fir tree . hi knowledg wa greater than hi wisdom , and hi power were far superior to hi charact . the small bright eye , buri deepli in hi fleshi face , twinkl with intellig and an unab curios of life , but they were the eye of a sensualist and an egotist . enough of the man , for he is dead now , poor devil , dead at the veri time that he had made sure that he had at last discov the elixir of life . It is not with hi complex charact that I have to deal , but with the veri strang and inexplic incid which had it rise in my visit to him in the earli spring of the year '82 . I had known dacr in england , for my research in the assyrian room of the british museum had been conduct at the time when he wa endeavour to establish a mystic and esoter mean in the babylonian tablet , and thi commun of interest had brought us togeth . chanc remark had led to daili convers , and that to someth verg upon friendship . I had promis him that on my next visit to pari I would call upon him . At the time when I wa abl to fulfil my compact I wa live in a cottag at fontainebleau , and as the even train were inconveni , he ask me to spend the night in hi hous . `` I have onli that one spare couch , '' said he , point to a broad sofa in hi larg salon ; `` I hope that you will manag to be comfort there . '' It wa a singular bedroom , with it high wall of brown volum , but there could be no more agreeabl furnitur to a bookworm like myself , and there is no scent so pleasant to my nostril as that faint , subtl reek which come from an ancient book . I assur him that I could desir no more charm chamber , and no more congeni surround . `` If the fit are neither conveni nor convent , they are at least costli , '' said he , look round at hi shelv . `` I have expend nearli a quarter of a million of money upon these object which surround you . book , weapon , gem , carv , tapestri , imag -- there is hardli a thing here which ha not it histori , and it is gener one worth tell . '' He wa seat as he spoke at one side of the open fire-plac , and I at the other . hi reading-t wa on hi right , and the strong lamp abov it ring it with a veri vivid circl of golden light . A half-rol palimpsest lay in the centr , and around it were mani quaint articl of bric-a-brac . one of these wa a larg funnel , such as is use for fill wine cask . It appear to be made of black wood , and to be rim with discolour brass . `` that is a curiou thing , '' I remark . `` what is the histori of that ? '' `` Ah ! '' said he , `` it is the veri question which I have had occas to ask myself . I would give a good deal to know . take it in your hand and examin it . '' I did so , and found that what I had imagin to be wood wa in realiti leather , though age had dri it into an extrem hard . It wa a larg funnel , and might hold a quart when full . the brass rim encircl the wide end , but the narrow wa also tip with metal . `` what do you make of it ? '' ask dacr . `` I should imagin that it belong to some vintner or maltster in the middl age , '' said I . `` I have seen in england leathern drink flagon of the seventeenth centuri -- 'black jack ' as they were call -- which were of the same colour and hard as thi filler . '' `` I dare say the date would be about the same , '' said dacr , `` and , no doubt , also , it wa use for fill a vessel with liquid . If my suspicion are correct , howev , it wa a queer vintner who use it , and a veri singular cask which wa fill . Do you observ noth strang at the spout end of the funnel . '' As I held it to the light I observ that at a spot some five inch abov the brass tip the narrow neck of the leather funnel wa all haggl and score , as if someon had notch it round with a blunt knife . onli at that point wa there ani roughen of the dead black surfac . `` someon ha tri to cut off the neck . '' `` would you call it a cut ? '' `` It is torn and lacer . It must have taken some strength to leav these mark on such tough materi , whatev the instrument may have been . but what do you think of it ? I can tell that you know more than you say . '' dacr smile , and hi littl eye twinkl with knowledg . `` have you includ the psycholog of dream among your learn studi ? '' he ask . `` I did not even know that there wa such a psycholog . '' `` My dear sir , that shelf abov the gem case is fill with volum , from albertu magnu onward , which deal with no other subject . It is a scienc in itself . '' `` A scienc of charlatan ! '' `` the charlatan is alway the pioneer . from the astrolog came the astronom , from the alchemist the chemist , from the mesmerist the experiment psychologist . the quack of yesterday is the professor of tomorrow . even such subtl and elus thing as dream will in time be reduc to system and order . when that time come the research of our friend on the bookshelf yonder will no longer be the amus of the mystic , but the foundat of a scienc . '' `` suppos that is so , what ha the scienc of dream to do with a larg , black , brass-rim funnel ? '' `` I will tell you . you know that I have an agent who is alway on the look-out for rariti and curios for my collect . some day ago he heard of a dealer upon one of the quai who had acquir some old rubbish found in a cupboard in an ancient hous at the back of the rue mathurin , in the quartier latin . the dining-room of thi old hous is decor with a coat of arm , chevron , and bar roug upon a field argent , which prove , upon inquiri , to be the shield of nichola de la reyni , a high offici of king loui xiv . there can be no doubt that the other articl in the cupboard date back to the earli day of that king . the infer is , therefor , that they were all the properti of thi nichola de la reyni , who wa , as I understand , the gentleman special concern with the mainten and execut of the dracon law of that epoch . '' `` what then ? '' `` I would ask you now to take the funnel into your hand onc more and to examin the upper brass rim . can you make out ani letter upon it ? '' there were certainli some scratch upon it , almost obliter by time . the gener effect wa of sever letter , the last of which bore some resembl to a B . `` you make it a B ? '' `` ye , I do . '' `` So do I . In fact , I have no doubt whatev that it is a B . '' `` but the nobleman you mention would have had R for hi initi . '' `` exactli ! that 's the beauti of it . He own thi curiou object , and yet he had someon els 's initi upon it . whi did he do thi ? '' `` I ca n't imagin ; can you ? '' `` well , I might , perhap , guess . Do you observ someth drawn a littl farther along the rim ? '' `` I should say it wa a crown . '' `` It is undoubtedli a crown ; but if you examin it in a good light , you will convinc yourself that it is not an ordinari crown . It is a herald crown -- a badg of rank , and it consist of an altern of four pearl and strawberri leav , the proper badg of a marqui . We may infer , therefor , that the person whose initi end in B wa entitl to wear that coronet . '' `` then thi common leather filler belong to a marqui ? '' dacr gave a peculiar smile . `` Or to some member of the famili of a marqui , '' said he . `` So much we have clearli gather from thi engrav rim . '' `` but what ha all thi to do with dream ? '' I do not know whether it wa from a look upon dacr 's face , or from some subtl suggest in hi manner , but a feel of repuls , of unreason horror , came upon me as I look at the gnarl old lump of leather . `` I have more than onc receiv import inform through my dream , '' said my companion in the didact manner which he love to affect . `` I make it a rule now when I am in doubt upon ani materi point to place the articl in question besid me as I sleep , and to hope for some enlighten . the process doe not appear to me to be veri obscur , though it ha not yet receiv the bless of orthodox scienc . accord to my theori , ani object which ha been intim associ with ani suprem paroxysm of human emot , whether it be joy or pain , will retain a certain atmospher or associ which it is capabl of commun to a sensit mind . By a sensit mind I do not mean an abnorm one , but such a train and educ mind as you or I possess . '' `` you mean , for exampl , that if I slept besid that old sword upon the wall , I might dream of some bloodi incid in which that veri sword took part ? '' `` An excel exampl , for , as a matter of fact , that sword wa use in that fashion by me , and I saw in my sleep the death of it owner , who perish in a brisk skirmish , which I have been unabl to identifi , but which occur at the time of the war of the frondist . If you think of it , some of our popular observ show that the fact ha alreadi been recogn by our ancestor , although we , in our wisdom , have class it among superstit . '' `` for exampl ? '' `` well , the place of the bride 's cake beneath the pillow in order that the sleeper may have pleasant dream . that is one of sever instanc which you will find set forth in a small brochur which I am myself write upon the subject . but to come back to the point , I slept one night with thi funnel besid me , and I had a dream which certainli throw a curiou light upon it use and origin . '' `` what did you dream ? '' `` I dream -- -- '' He paus , and an intent look of interest came over hi massiv face . `` By jove , that 's well thought of , '' said he . `` thi realli will be an exceedingli interest experi . you are yourself a psychic subject -- with nerv which respond readili to ani impress . '' `` I have never test myself in that direct . '' `` then we shall test you tonight . might I ask you as a veri great favour , when you occupi that couch tonight , to sleep with thi old funnel place by the side of your pillow ? '' the request seem to me a grotesqu one ; but I have myself , in my complex natur , a hunger after all which is bizarr and fantast . I had not the faintest belief in dacr 's theori , nor ani hope for success in such an experi ; yet it amus me that the experi should be made . dacr , with great graviti , drew a small stand to the head of my sette , and place the funnel upon it . then , after a short convers , he wish me good night and left me . I sat for some littl time smoke by the smoulder fire , and turn over in my mind the curiou incid which had occur , and the strang experi which might lie befor me . sceptic as I wa , there wa someth impress in the assur of dacr 's manner , and my extraordinari surround , the huge room with the strang and often sinist object which were hung round it , struck solemn into my soul . final I undress , and turn out the lamp , I lay down . after long toss I fell asleep . let me tri to describ as accur as I can the scene which came to me in my dream . It stand out now in my memori more clearli than anyth which I have seen with my wake eye . there wa a room which bore the appear of a vault . four spandrel from the corner ran up to join a sharp , cup-shap roof . the architectur wa rough , but veri strong . It wa evid part of a great build . three men in black , with curiou , top-heavi , black velvet hat , sat in a line upon a red-carpet dai . their face were veri solemn and sad . On the left stood two long-gown men with port-folio in their hand , which seem to be stuf with paper . upon the right , look toward me , wa a small woman with blond hair and singular , light-blu eye -- the eye of a child . she wa past her first youth , but could not yet be call middle-ag . her figur wa inclin to stout and her bear wa proud and confid . her face wa pale , but seren . It wa a curiou face , come and yet felin , with a subtl suggest of cruelti about the straight , strong littl mouth and chubbi jaw . she wa drape in some sort of loos , white gown . besid her stood a thin , eager priest , who whisper in her ear , and continu rais a crucifix befor her eye . she turn her head and look fixedli past the crucifix at the three men in black , who were , I felt , her judg . As I gaze the three men stood up and said someth , but I could distinguish no word , though I wa awar that it wa the central one who wa speak . they then swept out of the room , follow by the two men with the paper . At the same instant sever rough-look fellow in stout jerkin came bustl in and remov first the red carpet , and then the board which form the dai , so as to entir clear the room . when thi screen wa remov I saw some singular articl of furnitur behind it . one look like a bed with wooden roller at each end , and a winch handl to regul it length . anoth wa a wooden hors . there were sever other curiou object , and a number of swing cord which play over pulley . It wa not unlik a modern gymnasium . when the room had been clear there appear a new figur upon the scene . thi wa a tall , thin person clad in black , with a gaunt and auster face . the aspect of the man made me shudder . hi cloth were all shine with greas and mottl with stain . He bore himself with a slow and impress digniti , as if he took command of all thing from the instant of hi entranc . In spite of hi rude appear and sordid dress , it wa now hi busi , hi room , hi to command . He carri a coil of light rope over hi left forearm . the ladi look him up and down with a search glanc , but her express wa unchang . It wa confid -- even defiant . but it wa veri differ with the priest . hi face wa ghastli white , and I saw the moistur glisten and run on hi high , slope forehead . He threw up hi hand in prayer and he stoop continu to mutter frantic word in the ladi 's ear . the man in black now advanc , and take one of the cord from hi left arm , he bound the woman 's hand togeth . she held them meekli toward him as he did so . then he took her arm with a rough grip and led her toward the wooden hors , which wa littl higher than her waist . On to thi she wa lift and laid , with her back upon it , and her face to the ceil , while the priest , quiver with horror , had rush out of the room . the woman 's lip were move rapidli , and though I could hear noth I knew that she wa pray . her feet hung down on either side of the hors , and I saw that the rough varlet in attend had fasten cord to her ankl and secur the other end to iron ring in the stone floor . My heart sank within me as I saw these omin prepar , and yet I wa held by the fascin of horror , and I could not take my eye from the strang spectacl . A man had enter the room with a bucket of water in either hand . anoth follow with a third bucket . they were laid besid the wooden hors . the second man had a wooden dipper -- a bowl with a straight handl -- in hi other hand . thi he gave to the man in black . At the same moment one of the varlet approach with a dark object in hi hand , which even in my dream fill me with a vagu feel of familiar . It wa a leathern filler . with horribl energi he thrust it -- but I could stand no more . My hair stood on end with horror . I writh , I struggl , I broke through the bond of sleep , and I burst with a shriek into my own life , and found myself lie shiver with terror in the huge librari , with the moonlight flood through the window and throw strang silver and black traceri upon the opposit wall . Oh , what a bless relief to feel that I wa back in the nineteenth centuri -- back out of that mediaev vault into a world where men had human heart within their bosom . I sat up on my couch , trembl in everi limb , my mind divid between thank and horror . To think that such thing were ever done -- that they could be done without god strike the villain dead . wa it all a fantasi , or did it realli stand for someth which had happen in the black , cruel day of the world 's histori ? I sank my throb head upon my shake hand . and then , suddenli , my heart seem to stand still in my bosom , and I could not even scream , so great wa my terror . someth wa advanc toward me through the dark of the room . It is a horror come upon a horror which break a man 's spirit . I could not reason , I could not pray ; I could onli sit like a frozen imag , and glare at the dark figur which wa come down the great room . and then it move out into the white lane of moonlight , and I breath onc more . It wa dacr , and hi face show that he wa as frighten as myself . `` wa that you ? for god 's sake what 's the matter ? '' he ask in a huski voic . `` Oh , dacr , I am glad to see you ! I have been down into hell . It wa dread . '' `` then it wa you who scream ? '' `` I dare say it wa . '' `` It rang through the hous . the servant are all terrifi . '' He struck a match and lit the lamp . `` I think we may get the fire to burn up again , '' he ad , throw some log upon the ember . `` good god , my dear chap , how white you are ! you look as if you had seen a ghost . '' `` So I have -- sever ghost . '' `` the leather funnel ha act , then ? '' `` I would n't sleep near the infern thing again for all the money you could offer me . '' dacr chuckl . `` I expect that you would have a live night of it , '' said he . `` you took it out of me in return , for that scream of your wa n't a veri pleasant sound at two in the morn . I suppos from what you say that you have seen the whole dread busi . '' `` what dread busi ? '' `` the tortur of the water -- the 'extraordinari question , ' as it wa call in the genial day of 'le roi soleil . ' did you stand it out to the end ? '' `` No , thank god , I awok befor it realli began . '' `` Ah ! it is just as well for you . I held out till the third bucket . well , it is an old stori , and they are all in their grave now , anyhow , so what doe it matter how they got there ? I suppos that you have no idea what it wa that you have seen ? '' `` the tortur of some crimin . she must have been a terribl malefactor inde if her crime are in proport to her penalti . '' `` well , we have that small consol , '' said dacr , wrap hi dressing-gown round him and crouch closer to the fire . `` they were in proport to her penalti . that is to say , if I am correct in the ladi 's ident . '' `` how could you possibl know her ident ? '' for answer dacr took down an old vellum-cov volum from the shelf . `` just listen to thi , '' said he ; `` it is in the french of the seventeenth centuri , but I will give a rough translat as I go . you will judg for yourself whether I have solv the riddl or not . `` 'the prison wa brought befor the grand chamber and tournel of parliament , sit as a court of justic , charg with the murder of master dreux d'aubray , her father , and of her two brother , MM . d'aubray , one be civil lieuten , and the other a counsellor of parliament . In person it seem hard to believ that she had realli done such wick deed , for she wa of a mild appear , and of short statur , with a fair skin and blue eye . yet the court , have found her guilti , condemn her to the ordinari and to the extraordinari question in order that she might be forc to name her accomplic , after which she should be carri in a cart to the place de greve , there to have her head cut off , her bodi be afterward burn and her ash scatter to the wind . ' `` the date of thi entri is juli 16 , 1676 . '' `` It is interest , '' said I , `` but not convinc . how do you prove the two women to be the same ? '' `` I am come to that . the narr goe on to tell of the woman 's behaviour when question . 'when the execution approach her she recogn him by the cord which he held in hi hand , and she at onc held out her own hand to him , look at him from head to foot without utter a word . ' how 's that ? '' `` ye , it wa so . '' `` 'she gaze without winc upon the wooden hors and ring which had twist so mani limb and caus so mani shriek of agoni . when her eye fell upon the three pail of water , which were all readi for her , she said with a smile , `` all that water must have been brought here for the purpos of drown me , monsieur . you have no idea , I trust , of make a person of my small statur swallow it all . '' ' shall I read the detail of the tortur ? '' `` No , for heaven 's sake , do n't . '' `` here is a sentenc which must sure show you that what is here record is the veri scene which you have gaze upon tonight : 'the good abb pirot , unabl to contempl the agoni which were suffer by hi penit , had hurri from the room . ' doe that convinc you ? '' `` It doe entir . there can be no question that it is inde the same event . but who , then , is thi ladi whose appear wa so attract and whose end wa so horribl ? '' for answer dacr came across to me , and place the small lamp upon the tabl which stood by my bed . lift up the ill-omen filler , he turn the brass rim so that the light fell full upon it . seen in thi way the engrav seem clearer than on the night befor . `` We have alreadi agre that thi is the badg of a marqui or of a marquis , '' said he . `` We have also settl that the last letter is B . '' `` It is undoubtedli so . '' `` I now suggest to you that the other letter from left to right are , M , M , a small d , A , a small d , and then the final B . '' `` ye , I am sure that you are right . I can make out the two small d 's quit plainli . '' `` what I have read to you tonight , '' said dacr , `` is the offici record of the trial of mari madelein d'aubray , marquis de brinvilli , one of the most famou poison and murder of all time . '' I sat in silenc , overwhelm at the extraordinari natur of the incid , and at the complet of the proof with which dacr had expos it real mean . In a vagu way I rememb some detail of the woman 's career , her unbridl debaucheri , the cold-blood and protract tortur of her sick father , the murder of her brother for motiv of petti gain . I recollect also that the braveri of her end had done someth to aton for the horror of her life , and that all pari had sympath with her last moment , and bless her as a martyr within a few day of the time when they had curs her as a murderess . one object , and one onli , occur to my mind . `` how came her initi and her badg of rank upon the filler ? sure they did not carri their mediaev homag to the nobil to the point of decor instrument of tortur with their titl ? '' `` I wa puzzl with the same point , '' said dacr , `` but it admit of a simpl explan . the case excit extraordinari interest at the time , and noth could be more natur than that La reyni , the head of the polic , should retain thi filler as a grim souvenir . It wa not often that a marchio of franc underw the extraordinari question . that he should engrav her initi upon it for the inform of other wa sure a veri ordinari proceed upon hi part . '' `` and thi ? '' I ask , point to the mark upon the leathern neck . `` she wa a cruel tigress , '' said dacr , as he turn away . `` I think it is evid that like other tigress her teeth were both strong and sharp . '' the new catacomb `` look here , burger , '' said kennedi , `` I do wish that you would confid in me . '' the two famou student of roman remain sat togeth in kennedi 's comfort room overlook the corso . the night wa cold , and they had both pull up their chair to the unsatisfactori italian stove which threw out a zone of stuffi rather than of warmth . outsid under the bright winter star lay the modern rome , the long , doubl chain of the electr lamp , the brilliantli light cafe , the rush carriag , and the dens throng upon the footpath . but insid , in the sumptuou chamber of the rich young english archaeologist , there wa onli old rome to be seen . crack and timeworn friez hung upon the wall , grey old bust of senat and soldier with their fight head and their hard , cruel face peer out from the corner . On the centr tabl , amidst a litter of inscript , fragment , and ornament , there stood the famou reconstruct by kennedi of the bath of caracalla , which excit such interest and admir when it wa exhibit in berlin . amphora hung from the ceil , and a litter of curios strew the rich red turkey carpet . and of them all there wa not one which wa not of the most unimpeach authent , and of the utmost rariti and valu ; for kennedi , though littl more than thirti , had a european reput in thi particular branch of research , and wa , moreov , provid with that long purs which either prove to be a fatal handicap to the student 's energi , or , if hi mind is still true to it purpos , give him an enorm advantag in the race for fame . kennedi had often been seduc by whim and pleasur from hi studi , but hi mind wa an incis one , capabl of long and concentr effort which end in sharp reaction of sensuou languor . hi handsom face , with it high , white forehead , it aggress nose , and it somewhat loos and sensual mouth , wa a fair index of the compromis between strength and weak in hi natur . Of a veri differ type wa hi companion , juliu burger . He came of a curiou blend , a german father and an italian mother , with the robust qualiti of the north mingl strang with the softer grace of the south . blue teuton eye lighten hi sun-brown face , and abov them rose a squar , massiv forehead , with a fring of close yellow curl lie round it . hi strong , firm jaw wa clean-shaven , and hi companion had frequent remark how much it suggest those old roman bust which peer out from the shadow in the corner of hi chamber . under it bluff german strength there lay alway a suggest of italian subtleti , but the smile wa so honest , and the eye so frank , that one understood that thi wa onli an indic of hi ancestri , with no actual bear upon hi charact . In age and in reput , he wa on the same level as hi english companion , but hi life and hi work had both been far more arduou . twelv year befor , he had come as a poor student to rome , and had live ever sinc upon some small endow for research which had been award to him by the univers of bonn . pain , slowli , and doggedli , with extraordinari tenac and single-minded , he had climb from rung to rung of the ladder of fame , until now he wa a member of the berlin academi , and there wa everi reason to believ that he would shortli be promot to the chair of the greatest of german univers . but the singl of purpos which had brought him to the same high level as the rich and brilliant englishman , had caus him in everyth outsid their work to stand infinit below him . He had never found a paus in hi studi in which to cultiv the social grace . It wa onli when he spoke of hi own subject that hi face wa fill with life and soul . At other time he wa silent and embarrass , too consciou of hi own limit in larger subject , and impati of that small talk which is the convent refug of those who have no thought to express . and yet for some year there had been an acquaintanceship which appear to be slowli ripen into a friendship between these two veri differ rival . the base and origin of thi lay in the fact that in their own studi each wa the onli one of the younger men who had knowledg and enthusiasm enough to properli appreci the other . their common interest and pursuit had brought them togeth , and each had been attract by the other 's knowledg . and then gradual someth had been ad to thi . kennedi had been amus by the frank and simplic of hi rival , while burger in turn had been fascin by the brillianc and vivac which had made kennedi such a favourit in roman societi . I say `` had , '' becaus just at the moment the young englishman wa somewhat under a cloud . A love-affair , the detail of which had never quit come out , had indic a heartless and callous upon hi part which shock mani of hi friend . but in the bachelor circl of student and artist in which he prefer to move there is no veri rigid code of honour in such matter , and though a head might be shaken or a pair of shoulder shrug over the flight of two and the return of one , the gener sentiment wa probabl one of curios and perhap of envi rather than of reprob . `` look here , burger , '' said kennedi , look hard at the placid face of hi companion , `` I do wish that you would confid in me . '' As he spoke he wave hi hand in the direct of a rug which lay upon the floor . On the rug stood a long , shallow fruit-basket of the light wicker-work which is use in the campagna , and thi wa heap with a litter of object , inscrib tile , broken inscript , crack mosaic , torn papyri , rusti metal ornament , which to the uniniti might have seem to have come straight from a dustman 's bin , but which a specialist would have speedili recogn as uniqu of their kind . the pile of odd and end in the flat wicker-work basket suppli exactli one of those miss link of social develop which are of such interest to the student . It wa the german who had brought them in , and the englishman 's eye were hungri as he look at them . `` I wo n't interfer with your treasure-trov , but I should veri much like to hear about it , '' he continu , while burger veri deliber lit a cigar . `` It is evid a discoveri of the first import . these inscript will make a sensat throughout europ . '' `` for everi one here there are a million there ! '' said the german . `` there are so mani that a dozen savant might spend a lifetim over them , and build up a reput as solid as the castl of St . angelo . '' kennedi sat think with hi fine forehead wrinkl and hi finger play with hi long , fair moustach . `` you have given yourself away , burger ! '' said he at last . `` your word can onli appli to one thing . you have discov a new catacomb . '' `` I had no doubt that you had alreadi come to that conclus from an examin of these object . '' `` well , they certainli appear to indic it , but your last remark make it certain . there is no place except a catacomb which could contain so vast a store of relic as you describ . '' `` quit so . there is no mysteri about that . I have discov a new catacomb . '' `` where ? '' `` Ah , that is my secret , my dear kennedi . suffic it that it is so situat that there is not one chanc in a million of anyon els come upon it . it date is differ from that of ani known catacomb , and it ha been reserv for the burial of the highest christian , so that the remain and the relic are quit differ from anyth which ha ever been seen befor . If I wa not awar of your knowledg and of your energi , my friend , I would not hesit , under the pledg of secreci , to tell you everyth about it . but as it is I think that I must certainli prepar my own report of the matter befor I expos myself to such formid competit . '' kennedi love hi subject with a love which wa almost a mania -- a love which held him true to it , amidst all the distract which come to a wealthi and dissip young man . He had ambit , but hi ambit wa secondari to hi mere abstract joy and interest in everyth which concern the old life and histori of the citi . He yearn to see thi new underworld which hi companion had discov . `` look here , burger , '' said he , earnestli , `` I assur you that you can trust me most implicitli in the matter . noth would induc me to put pen to paper about anyth which I see until I have your express permiss . I quit understand your feel and I think it is most natur , but you have realli noth whatev to fear from me . On the other hand , if you do n't tell me I shall make a systemat search , and I shall most certainli discov it . In that case , of cours , I should make what use I like of it , sinc I should be under no oblig to you . '' burger smile thought over hi cigar . `` I have notic , friend kennedi , '' said he , `` that when I want inform over ani point you are not alway so readi to suppli it . '' `` when did you ever ask me anyth that I did not tell you ? you rememb , for exampl , my give you the materi for your paper about the templ of the vestal . '' `` Ah , well , that wa not a matter of much import . If I were to question you upon some intim thing would you give me an answer , I wonder ! thi new catacomb is a veri intim thing to me , and I should certainli expect some sign of confid in return . '' `` what you are drive at I can not imagin , '' said the englishman , `` but if you mean that you will answer my question about the catacomb if I answer ani question which you may put to me I can assur you that I will certainli do so . '' `` well , then , '' said burger , lean luxuri back in hi sette , and puf a blue tree of cigar-smok into the air , `` tell me all about your relat with miss mari saunderson . '' kennedi sprang up in hi chair and glare angrili at hi impass companion . `` what the devil do you mean ? '' he cri . `` what sort of a question is thi ? you may mean it as a joke , but you never made a wors one . '' `` No , I do n't mean it as a joke , '' said burger , simpli . `` I am realli rather interest in the detail of the matter . I do n't know much about the world and women and social life and that sort of thing , and such an incid ha the fascin of the unknown for me . I know you , and I knew her by sight -- I had even spoken to her onc or twice . I should veri much like to hear from your own lip exactli what it wa which occur between you . '' `` I wo n't tell you a word . '' `` that 's all right . It wa onli my whim to see if you would give up a secret as easili as you expect me to give up my secret of the new catacomb . you would n't , and I did n't expect you to . but whi should you expect otherwis of me ? there 's saint john 's clock strike ten . It is quit time that I wa go home . '' `` No ; wait a bit , burger , '' said kennedi ; `` thi is realli a ridicul capric of your to wish to know about an old love-affair which ha burn out month ago . you know we look upon a man who kiss and tell as the greatest coward and villain possibl . '' `` certainli , '' said the german , gather up hi basket of curios , `` when he tell anyth about a girl which is previous unknown he must be so . but in thi case , as you must be awar , it wa a public matter which wa the common talk of rome , so that you are not realli do miss mari saunderson ani injuri by discuss her case with me . but still , I respect your scrupl ; and so good night ! '' `` wait a bit , burger , '' said kennedi , lay hi hand upon the other 's arm ; `` I am veri keen upon thi catacomb busi , and I ca n't let it drop quit so easili . would you mind ask me someth els in return -- someth not quit so eccentr thi time ? '' `` No , no ; you have refus , and there is an end of it , '' said burger , with hi basket on hi arm . `` No doubt you are quit right not to answer , and no doubt I am quit right also -- and so again , my dear kennedi , good night ! '' the englishman watch burger cross the room , and he had hi hand on the handl of the door befor hi host sprang up with the air of a man who is make the best of that which can not be help . `` hold on , old fellow , '' said he ; `` I think you are behav in a most ridicul fashion ; but still ; if thi is your condit , I suppos that I must submit to it . I hate say anyth about a girl , but , as you say , it is all over rome , and I do n't suppos I can tell you anyth which you do not know alreadi . what wa it you want to know ? '' the german came back to the stove , and , lay down hi basket , he sank into hi chair onc more . `` may I have anoth cigar ? '' said he . `` thank you veri much ! I never smoke when I work , but I enjoy a chat much more when I am under the influenc of tobacco . now , as regard thi young ladi , with whom you had thi littl adventur . what in the world ha becom of her ? '' `` she is at home with her own peopl . '' `` Oh , realli -- in england ? '' `` ye . '' `` what part of england -- london ? '' `` No , twickenham . '' `` you must excus my curios , my dear kennedi , and you must put it down to my ignor of the world . No doubt it is quit a simpl thing to persuad a young ladi to go off with you for three week or so , and then to hand her over to her own famili at -- what did you call the place ? '' `` twickenham . '' `` quit so -- at twickenham . but it is someth so entir outsid my own experi that I can not even imagin how you set about it . for exampl , if you had love thi girl your love could hardli disappear in three week , so I presum that you could not have love her at all . but if you did not love her whi should you make thi great scandal which ha damag you and ruin her ? '' kennedi look moodili into the red eye of the stove . `` that 's a logic way of look at it , certainli , '' said he . `` love is a big word , and it repres a good mani differ shade of feel . I like her , and -- well , you say you 've seen her -- you know how charm she could look . but still I am will to admit , look back , that I could never have realli love her . '' `` then , my dear kennedi , whi did you do it ? '' `` the adventur of the thing had a great deal to do with it . '' `` what ! you are so fond of adventur ! '' `` where would the varieti of life be without them ? It wa for an adventur that I first began to pay my attent to her . I 've chase a good deal of game in my time , but there 's no chase like that of a pretti woman . there wa the piquant difficulti of it also , for , as she wa the companion of ladi emili rood , it wa almost imposs to see her alon . On the top of all the other obstacl which attract me , I learn from her own lip veri earli in the proceed that she wa engag . '' `` mein gott ! To whom ? '' `` she mention no name . '' `` I do not think that anyon know that . So that made the adventur more allur , did it ? '' `` well , it did certainli give a spice to it . Do n't you think so ? '' `` I tell you that I am veri ignor about these thing . '' `` My dear fellow , you can rememb that the appl you stole from your neighbour 's tree wa alway sweeter than that which fell from your own . and then I found that she care for me . '' `` what -- at onc ? '' `` Oh , no , it took about three month of sap and mine . but at last I won her over . she understood that my judici separ from my wife made it imposs for me to do the right thing by her -- but she came all the same , and we had a delight time , as long as it last . '' `` but how about the other man ? '' kennedi shrug hi shoulder . `` I suppos it is the surviv of the fittest , '' said he . `` If he had been the better man she would not have desert him . let 's drop the subject , for I have had enough of it ! '' `` onli one other thing . how did you get rid of her in three week ? '' `` well , we had both cool down a bit , you understand . she absolut refus , under ani circumst , to come back to face the peopl she had known in rome . now , of cours , rome is necessari to me , and I wa alreadi pine to be back at my work -- so there wa one obviou caus of separ . then , again , her old father turn up at the hotel in london , and there wa a scene , and the whole thing becam so unpleas that realli -- though I miss her dread at first -- I wa veri glad to slip out of it . now , I reli upon you not to repeat anyth of what I have said . '' `` My dear kennedi , I should not dream of repeat it . but all that you say interest me veri much , for it give me an insight into your way of look at thing , which is entir differ from mine , for I have seen so littl of life . and now you want to know about my new catacomb . there 's no use my tri to describ it , for you would never find it by that . there is onli one thing , and that is for me to take you there . '' `` that would be splendid . '' `` when would you like to come ? '' `` the sooner the better . I am all impati to see it . '' `` well , it is a beauti night -- though a trifl cold . suppos we start in an hour . We must be veri care to keep the matter to ourselv . If anyon saw us hunt in coupl they would suspect that there wa someth go on . '' `` We ca n't be too cautiou , '' said kennedi . `` Is it far ? '' `` some mile . '' `` not too far to walk ? '' `` Oh , no , we could walk there easili . '' `` We had better do so , then . A cabman 's suspicion would be arous if he drop us both at some lone spot in the dead of the night . '' `` quit so . I think it would be best for us to meet at the gate of the appian way at midnight . I must go back to my lodg for the match and candl and thing . '' `` all right , burger ! I think it is veri kind of you to let me into thi secret , and I promis you that I will write noth about it until you have publish your report . good-by for the present ! you will find me at the gate at twelv . '' the cold , clear air wa fill with the music chime from that citi of clock as burger , wrap in an italian overcoat , with a lantern hang from hi hand , walk up to the rendezv . kennedi step out of the shadow to meet him . `` you are ardent in work as well as in love ! '' said the german , laugh . `` ye ; I have been wait here for nearli half an hour . '' `` I hope you left no clue as to where we were go . '' `` not such a fool ! By jove , I am chill to the bone ! come on , burger , let us warm ourselv by a spurt of hard walk . '' their footstep sound loud and crisp upon the rough stone pave of the disappoint road which is all that is left of the most famou highway of the world . A peasant or two go home from the wine-shop , and a few cart of countri produc come up to rome , were the onli thing which they met . they swung along , with the huge tomb loom up through the dark upon each side of them , until they had come as far as the catacomb of st. calistu , and saw against a rise moon the great circular bastion of cecilia metella in front of them . then burger stop with hi hand to hi side . `` your leg are longer than mine , and you are more accustom to walk , '' said he , laugh . `` I think that the place where we turn off is somewher here . ye , thi is it , round the corner of the trattoria . now , it is a veri narrow path , so perhap I had better go in front and you can follow . '' He had lit hi lantern , and by it light they were enabl to follow a narrow and deviou track which wound across the marsh of the campagna . the great aqueduct of old rome lay like a monstrou caterpillar across the moonlit landscap , and their road led them under one of it huge arch , and past the circl of crumbl brick which mark the old arena . At last burger stop at a solitari wooden cow-hous , and he drew a key from hi pocket . `` sure your catacomb is not insid a hous ! '' cri kennedi . `` the entranc to it is . that is just the safeguard which we have against anyon els discov it . '' `` doe the proprietor know of it ? '' `` not he . He had found one or two object which made me almost certain that hi hous wa built on the entranc to such a place . So I rent it from him , and did my excav for myself . come in , and shut the door behind you . '' It wa a long , empti build , with the manger of the cow along one wall . burger put hi lantern down on the ground , and shade it light in all direct save one by drape hi overcoat round it . `` It might excit remark if anyon saw a light in thi lone place , '' said he . `` just help me to move thi board . '' the floor wa loos in the corner , and plank by plank the two savant rais it and lean it against the wall . below there wa a squar apertur and a stair of old stone step which led away down into the bowel of the earth . `` Be care ! '' cri burger , as kennedi , in hi impati , hurri down them . `` It is a perfect rabbits'-warren below , and if you were onc to lose your way there the chanc would be a hundr to one against your ever come out again . wait until I bring the light . '' `` how do you find your own way if it is so complic ? '' `` I had some veri narrow escap at first , but I have gradual learn to go about . there is a certain system to it , but it is one which a lost man , if he were in the dark , could not possibl find out . even now I alway spin out a ball of string behind me when I am go far into the catacomb . you can see for yourself that it is difficult , but everi one of these passag divid and subdivid a dozen time befor you go a hundr yard . '' they had descend some twenti feet from the level of the byre , and they were stand now in a squar chamber cut out of the soft tufa . the lantern cast a flicker light , bright below and dim abov , over the crack brown wall . In everi direct were the black open of passag which radiat from thi common centr . `` I want you to follow me close , my friend , '' said burger . `` Do not loiter to look at anyth upon the way , for the place to which I will take you contain all that you can see , and more . It will save time for us to go there direct . '' He led the way down one of the corridor , and the englishman follow close at hi heel . everi now and then the passag bifurc , but burger wa evid follow some secret mark of hi own , for he neither stop nor hesit . everywher along the wall , pack like the berth upon an emigr ship , lay the christian of old rome . the yellow light flicker over the shrivel featur of the mummi , and gleam upon round skull and long , white armbon cross over fleshless chest . and everywher as he pass kennedi look with wist eye upon inscript , funer vessel , pictur , vestment , utensil , all lie as piou hand had place them so mani centuri ago . It wa appar to him , even in those hurri , pass glanc , that thi wa the earliest and finest of the catacomb , contain such a storehous of roman remain as had never befor come at one time under the observ of the student . `` what would happen if the light went out ? '' he ask , as they hurri onward . `` I have a spare candl and a box of match in my pocket . By the way , kennedi , have you ani match ? '' `` No ; you had better give me some . '' `` Oh , that is all right . there is no chanc of our separ . '' `` how far are we go ? It seem to me that we have walk at least a quarter of a mile . '' `` more than that , I think . there is realli no limit to the tomb -- at least , I have never been abl to find ani . thi is a veri difficult place , so I think that I will use our ball of string . '' He fasten one end of it to a project stone and he carri the coil in the breast of hi coat , pay it out as he advanc . kennedi saw that it wa no unnecessari precaut , for the passag had becom more complex and tortuou than ever , with a perfect network of intersect corridor . but these all end in one larg circular hall with a squar pedest of tufa top with a slab of marbl at one end of it . `` By jove ! '' cri kennedi in an ecstasi , as burger swung hi lantern over the marbl . `` It is a christian altar -- probabl the first one in exist . here is the littl consecr cross cut upon the corner of it . No doubt thi circular space wa use as a church . '' `` precis , '' said burger . `` If I had more time I should like to show you all the bodi which are buri in these nich upon the wall , for they are the earli pope and bishop of the church , with their mitr , their crozier , and full canon . Go over to that one and look at it ! '' kennedi went across , and stare at the ghastli head which lay loos on the shred and moulder mitr . `` thi is most interest , '' said he , and hi voic seem to boom against the concav vault . `` As far as my experi goe , it is uniqu . bring the lantern over , burger , for I want to see them all . '' but the german had stroll away , and wa stand in the middl of a yellow circl of light at the other side of the hall . `` Do you know how mani wrong turn there are between thi and the stair ? '' he ask . `` there are over two thousand . No doubt it wa one of the mean of protect which the christian adopt . the odd are two thousand to one against a man get out , even if he had a light ; but if he were in the dark it would , of cours , be far more difficult . '' `` So I should think . '' `` and the dark is someth dread . I tri it onc for an experi . let us tri it again ! '' He stoop to the lantern , and in an instant it wa as if an invis hand wa squeez tightli over each of kennedi 's eye . never had he known what such dark wa . It seem to press upon him and to smother him . It wa a solid obstacl against which the bodi shrank from advanc . He put hi hand out to push it back from him . `` that will do , burger , '' said he , `` let 's have the light again . '' but hi companion began to laugh , and in that circular room the sound seem to come from everi side at onc . `` you seem uneasi , friend kennedi , '' said he . `` Go on , man , light the candl ! '' said kennedi impati . `` It 's veri strang , kennedi , but I could not in the least tell by the sound in which direct you stand . could you tell where I am ? '' `` No ; you seem to be on everi side of me . '' `` If it were not for thi string which I hold in my hand I should not have a notion which way to go . '' `` I dare say not . strike a light , man , and have an end of thi nonsens . '' `` well , kennedi , there are two thing which I understand that you are veri fond of . the one is an adventur , and the other is an obstacl to surmount . the adventur must be the find of your way out of thi catacomb . the obstacl will be the dark and the two thousand wrong turn which make the way a littl difficult to find . but you need not hurri , for you have plenti of time , and when you halt for a rest now and then , I should like you just to think of miss mari saunderson , and whether you treat her quit fairli . '' `` you devil , what do you mean ? '' roar kennedi . He wa run about in littl circl and clasp at the solid black with both hand . `` good-by , '' said the mock voic , and it wa alreadi at some distanc . `` I realli do not think , kennedi , even by your own show that you did the right thing by that girl . there wa onli one littl thing which you appear not to know , and I can suppli it . miss saunderson wa engag to a poor ungainli devil of a student , and hi name wa juliu burger . '' there wa a rustl somewher , the vagu sound of a foot strike a stone , and then there fell silenc upon that old christian church -- a stagnant , heavi silenc which close round kennedi and shut him in like water round a drown man . some two month afterward the follow paragraph made the round of the european press : `` one of the most interest discoveri of recent year is that of the new catacomb in rome , which lie some distanc to the east of the well-known vault of st. calixtu . the find of thi import burial-plac , which is exceed rich in most interest earli christian remain , is due to the energi and sagac of dr. juliu burger , the young german specialist , who is rapidli take the first place as an author upon ancient rome . although the first to publish hi discoveri , it appear that a less fortun adventur had anticip dr. burger . some month ago mr. kennedi , the well-known english student , disappear suddenli from hi room in the corso , and it wa conjectur that hi associ with a recent scandal had driven him to leav rome . It appear now that he had in realiti fallen a victim to that fervid love of archaeolog which had rais him to a distinguish place among live scholar . hi bodi wa discov in the heart of the new catacomb , and it wa evid from the condit of hi feet and boot that he had tramp for day through the tortuou corridor which make these subterranean tomb so danger to explor . the deceas gentleman had , with inexplic rash , made hi way into thi labyrinth without , as far as can be discov , take with him either candl or match , so that hi sad fate wa the natur result of hi own temer . what make the matter more pain is that dr. juliu burger wa an intim friend of the deceas . hi joy at the extraordinari find which he ha been so fortun as to make ha been greatli mar by the terribl fate of hi comrad and fellow-work . '' the case of ladi sannox the relat between dougla stone and the notori ladi sannox were veri well known both among the fashion circl of which she wa a brilliant member , and the scientif bodi which number him among their most illustri confrer . there wa natur , therefor , a veri widespread interest when it wa announc one morn that the ladi had absolut and for ever taken the veil , and that the world would see her no more . when , at the veri tail of thi rumour , there came the assur that the celebr oper surgeon , the man of steel nerv , had been found in the morn by hi valet , seat on one side of hi bed , smile pleasantli upon the univers , with both leg jam into one side of hi breech and hi great brain about as valuabl as a cap full of porridg , the matter wa strong enough to give quit a littl thrill of interest to folk who had never hope that their jade nerv were capabl of such a sensat . dougla stone in hi prime wa one of the most remark men in england . inde , he could hardli be said to have ever reach hi prime , for he wa but nine-and-thirti at the time of thi littl incid . those who knew him best were awar that famou as he wa as a surgeon , he might have succeed with even greater rapid in ani of a dozen line of life . He could have cut hi way to fame as a soldier , struggl to it as an explor , bulli for it in the court , or built it out of stone and iron as an engin . He wa born to be great , for he could plan what anoth man dare not do , and he could do what anoth man dare not plan . In surgeri none could follow him . hi nerv , hi judgement , hi intuit , were thing apart . again and again hi knife cut away death , but graze the veri spring of life in do it , until hi assist were as white as the patient . hi energi , hi audac , hi full-blood self-confid -- doe not the memori of them still linger to the south of marylebon road and the north of oxford street ? hi vice were as magnific as hi virtu , and infinit more picturesqu . larg as wa hi incom , and it wa the third largest of all profession men in london , it wa far beneath the luxuri of hi live . deep in hi complex natur lay a rich vein of sensual , at the sport of which he place all the prize of hi life . the eye , the ear , the touch , the palat , all were hi master . the bouquet of old vintag , the scent of rare exot , the curv and tint of the daintiest potteri of europ , it wa to these that the quick-run stream of gold wa transform . and then there came hi sudden mad passion for ladi sannox , when a singl interview with two challeng glanc and a whisper word set him ablaz . she wa the loveliest woman in london and the onli one to him . He wa one of the handsomest men in london , but not the onli one to her . she had a like for new experi , and wa graciou to most men who woo her . It may have been caus or it may have been effect that lord sannox look fifti , though he wa but six-and-thirti . He wa a quiet , silent , neutral-tint man , thi lord , with thin lip and heavi eyelid , much given to garden , and full of home-lik habit . He had at one time been fond of act , had even rent a theatr in london , and on it board had first seen miss marion dawson , to whom he had offer hi hand , hi titl , and the third of a counti . sinc hi marriag hi earli hobbi had becom distast to him . even in privat theatric it wa no longer possibl to persuad him to exercis the talent which he had often show that he possess . He wa happier with a spud and a watering-can among hi orchid and chrysanthemum . It wa quit an interest problem whether he wa absolut devoid of sens , or miser want in spirit . did he know hi ladi 's way and condon them , or wa he a mere blind , dote fool ? It wa a point to be discuss over the teacup in snug littl drawing-room , or with the aid of a cigar in the bow window of club . bitter and plain were the comment among men upon hi conduct . there wa but one who had a good word to say for him , and he wa the most silent member in the smoking-room . He had seen him break in a hors at the univers , and it seem to have left an impress upon hi mind . but when dougla stone becam the favourit all doubt as to lord sannox 's knowledg or ignor were set for ever at rest . there wa no subterfug about stone . In hi high-hand , impetu fashion , he set all caution and discret at defianc . the scandal becam notori . A learn bodi intim that hi name had been struck from the list of it vice-presid . two friend implor him to consid hi profession credit . He curs them all three , and spent forti guinea on a bangl to take with him to the ladi . He wa at her hous everi even , and she drove in hi carriag in the afternoon . there wa not an attempt on either side to conceal their relat ; but there came at last a littl incid to interrupt them . It wa a dismal winter 's night , veri cold and gusti , with the wind whoop in the chimney and bluster against the window-pan . A thin spatter of rain tinkl on the glass with each fresh sough of the gale , drown for the instant the dull gurgl and drip from the eav . dougla stone had finish hi dinner , and sat by hi fire in the studi , a glass of rich port upon the malachit tabl at hi elbow . As he rais it to hi lip , he held it up against the lamplight , and watch with the eye of a connoisseur the tini scale of beesw which float in it rich rubi depth . the fire , as it spurt up , threw fit light upon hi bald , clear-cut face , with it widely-open grey eye , it thick and yet firm lip , and the deep , squar jaw , which had someth roman in it strength and it anim . He smile from time to time as he nestl back in hi luxuri chair . inde , he had a right to feel well pleas , for , against the advic of six colleagu , he had perform an oper that day of which onli two case were on record , and the result had been brilliant beyond all expect . No other man in london would have had the dare to plan , or the skill to execut , such a heroic measur . but he had promis ladi sannox to see her that even and it wa alreadi half-past eight . hi hand wa outstretch to the bell to order the carriag when he heard the dull thud of the knocker . An instant later there wa the shuffl of feet in the hall , and the sharp close of a door . `` A patient to see you , sir , in the consult room , '' said the butler . `` about himself ? '' `` No , sir ; I think he want you to go out . '' `` It is too late , '' cri dougla stone peevishli . `` I wo n't go . '' `` thi is hi card , sir . '' the butler present it upon the gold salver which had been given to hi master by the wife of a prime minist . `` 'hamil ali , smyrna . ' hum ! the fellow is a turk , I suppos . '' `` ye , sir . He seem as if he came from abroad , sir . and he 's in a terribl way . '' `` tut , tut ! I have an engag . I must go somewher els . but I 'll see him . show him in here , pim . '' A few moment later the butler swung open the door and usher in a small and decrepit man , who walk with a bent back and with the forward push of the face and blink of the eye which goe with extrem short sight . hi face wa swarthi , and hi hair and beard of the deepest black . In one hand he held a turban of white muslin stripe with red , in the other a small chamois-leath bag . `` good even , '' said dougla stone , when the butler had close the door . `` you speak english , I presum ? '' `` ye , sir . I am from asia minor , but I speak english when I speak slow . '' `` you want me to go out , I understand ? '' `` ye , sir . I want veri much that you should see my wife . '' `` I could come in the morn , but I have an engag which prevent me from see your wife tonight . '' the turk 's answer wa a singular one . He pull the string which close the mouth of the chamois-leath bag , and pour a flood of gold on to the tabl . `` there are one hundr pound there , '' said he , `` and I promis you that it will not take you an hour . I have a cab readi at the door . '' dougla stone glanc at hi watch . An hour would not make it too late to visit ladi sannox . He had been there later . and the fee wa an extraordinarili high one . He had been press by hi creditor late , and he could not afford to let such a chanc pass . He would go . `` what is the case ? '' he ask . `` Oh , it is so sad a one ! So sad a one ! you have not , perhap heard of the dagger of the almohad ? '' `` never . '' `` Ah , they are eastern dagger of a great age and of a singular shape , with the hilt like what you call a stirrup . I am a curios dealer , you understand , and that is whi I have come to england from smyrna , but next week I go back onc more . mani thing I brought with me , and I have a few thing left , but among them , to my sorrow , is one of these dagger . '' `` you will rememb that I have an appoint , sir , '' said the surgeon , with some irrit ; `` pray confin yourself to the necessari detail . '' `` you will see that it is necessari . today my wife fell down in a faint in the room in which I keep my ware , and she cut her lower lip upon thi curs dagger of almohad . '' `` I see , '' said dougla stone , rise . `` and you wish me to dress the wound ? '' `` No , no , it is wors than that . '' `` what then ? '' `` these dagger are poison . '' `` poison ! '' `` ye , and there is no man , east or west , who can tell now what is the poison or what the cure . but all that is known I know , for my father wa in thi trade befor me , and we have had much to do with these poison weapon . '' `` what are the symptom ? '' `` deep sleep , and death in thirti hour . '' `` and you say there is no cure . whi then should you pay me thi consider fee ? '' `` No drug can cure , but the knife may . '' `` and how ? '' `` the poison is slow of absorpt . It remain for hour in the wound . '' `` wash , then , might cleans it ? '' `` No more than in a snake bite . It is too subtl and too deadli . '' `` excis of the wound , then ? '' `` that is it . If it be on the finger , take the finger off . So said my father alway . but think of where thi wound is , and that it is my wife . It is dread ! '' but familiar with such grim matter may take the finer edg from a man 's sympathi . To dougla stone thi wa alreadi an interest case , and he brush asid as irrelev the feebl object of the husband . `` It appear to be that or noth , '' said he brusqu . `` It is better to lose a lip than a life . '' `` Ah , ye , I know that you are right . well , well , it is kismet , and it must be face . I have the cab , and you will come with me and do thi thing . '' dougla stone took hi case of bistouri from a drawer , and place it with a roll of bandag and a compress of lint in hi pocket . He must wast no more time if he were to see ladi sannox . `` I am readi , '' said he , pull on hi overcoat . `` will you take a glass of wine befor you go out into thi cold air ? '' hi visitor shrank away , with a protest hand uprais . `` you forget that I am a mussulman , and a true follow of the prophet , '' said he . `` but tell me what is the bottl of green glass which you have place in your pocket ? '' `` It is chloroform . '' `` Ah , that also is forbidden to us . It is a spirit , and we make no use of such thing . '' `` what ! you would allow your wife to go through an oper without an anaesthet ? '' `` Ah ! she will feel noth , poor soul . the deep sleep ha alreadi come on , which is the first work of the poison . and then I have given her of our smyrna opium . come , sir , for alreadi an hour ha pass . '' As they step out into the dark , a sheet of rain wa driven in upon their face , and the hall lamp , which dangl from the arm of a marbl caryatid , went out with a fluff . pim , the butler , push the heavi door to , strain hard with hi shoulder against the wind , while the two men grope their way toward the yellow glare which show where the cab wa wait . An instant later they were rattl upon their journey . `` Is it far ? '' ask dougla stone . `` Oh , no . We have a veri littl quiet place off the euston road . '' the surgeon press the spring of hi repeat and listen to the littl ting which told him the hour . It wa a quarter past nine . He calcul the distanc , and the short time which it would take him to perform so trivial an oper . He ought to reach ladi sannox by ten o'clock . through the fog window he saw the blur ga lamp danc past , with occasion the broader glare of a shop front . the rain wa pelt and rattl upon the leathern top of the carriag , and the wheel swash as they roll through puddl and mud . opposit to him the white headgear of hi companion gleam faintli through the obscur . the surgeon felt in hi pocket and arrang hi needl , hi ligatur and hi safety-pin , that no time might be wast when they arriv . He chafe with impati and drum hi foot upon the floor . but the cab slow down at last and pull up . In an instant dougla stone wa out , and the smyrna merchant 's toe wa at hi veri heel . `` you can wait , '' said he to the driver . It wa a mean-look hous in a narrow and sordid street . the surgeon , who knew hi london well , cast a swift glanc into the shadow , but there wa noth distinct -- no shop , no movement , noth but a doubl line of dull , flat-fac hous , a doubl stretch of wet flagston which gleam in the lamplight , and a doubl rush of water in the gutter which swirl and gurgl toward the sewer grate . the door which face them wa blotch and discolour , and a faint light in the fan pane abov , it serv to show the dust and the grime which cover it . abov in one of the bedroom window , there wa a dull yellow glimmer . the merchant knock loudli , and , as he turn hi dark face toward the light , dougla stone could see that it wa contract with anxieti . A bolt wa drawn , and an elderli woman with a taper stood in the doorway , shield the thin flame with her gnarl hand . `` Is all well ? '' gasp the merchant . `` she is as you left her , sir . '' `` she ha not spoken ? '' `` No , she is in a deep sleep . '' the merchant close the door , and dougla stone walk down the narrow passag , glanc about him in some surpris as he did so . there wa no oil-cloth , no mat , no hat-rack . deep grey dust and heavi festoon of cobweb met hi eye everywher . follow the old woman up the wind stair , hi firm footfal echo harshli through the silent hous . there wa no carpet . the bedroom wa on the second land . dougla stone follow the old nurs into it , with the merchant at hi heel . here , at least , there wa furnitur and to spare . the floor wa litter and the corner pile with turkish cabinet , inlaid tabl , coat of chain mail , strang pipe , and grotesqu weapon . A singl small lamp stood upon a bracket on the wall . dougla stone took it down , and pick hi way among the lumber , walk over to a couch in the corner , on which lay a woman dress in the turkish fashion , with yashmak and veil . the lower part of the face wa expos , and the surgeon saw a jag cut which zigzag along the border of the under lip . `` you will forgiv the yashmak , '' said the turk . `` you know our view about women in the east . '' but the surgeon wa not think about the yashmak . thi wa no longer a woman to him . It wa a case . He stoop and examin the wound care . `` there are no sign of irrit , '' said he . `` We might delay the oper until local symptom develop . '' the husband wrung hi hand in uncontrol agit . `` Oh ! sir , sir , '' he cri . `` Do not trifl . you do not know . It is deadli . I know , and I give you my assur that an oper is absolut necessari . onli the knife can save her . '' `` and yet I am inclin to wait , '' said dougla stone . `` that is enough , '' the turk cri , angrili . `` everi minut is of import , and I can not stand here and see my wife allow to sink . It onli remain for me to give you my thank for have come , and to call in some other surgeon befor it is too late . '' dougla stone hesit . To refund that hundr pound wa no pleasant matter . but of cours if he left the case he must return the money . and if the turk were right and the woman die , hi posit befor a coron might be an embarrass one . `` you have had person experi of thi poison ? '' he ask . `` I have . '' `` and you assur me that an oper is need . '' `` I swear it by all that I hold sacr . '' `` the disfigur will be fright . '' `` I can understand that the mouth will not be a pretti one to kiss . '' dougla stone turn fierc upon the man . the speech wa a brutal one . but the turk ha hi own fashion of talk and of thought , and there wa no time for wrangl . dougla stone drew a bistouri from hi case , open it and felt the keen straight edg with hi forefing . then he held the lamp closer to the bed . two dark eye were gaze up at him through the slit in the yashmak . they were all iri , and the pupil wa hardli to be seen . `` you have given her a veri heavi dose of opium . '' `` ye , she ha had a good dose . '' He glanc again at the dark eye which look straight at hi own . they were dull and lustreless , but , even as he gaze , a littl shift sparkl came into them , and the lip quiver . `` she is not absolut unconsci , '' said he . `` would it not be well to use the knife while it will be painless ? '' the same thought had cross the surgeon 's mind . He grasp the wound lip with hi forcep , and with two swift cut he took out a broad v-shape piec . the woman sprang up on the couch with a dread gurgl scream . her cover wa torn from her face . It wa a face that he knew . In spite of that protrud upper lip and that slobber of blood , it wa a face that he knew , she kept on put her hand up to the gap and scream . dougla stone sat down at the foot of the couch with hi knife and hi forcep . the room wa whirl round , and he had felt someth go like a rip seam behind hi ear . A bystand would have said that hi face wa the more ghastli of the two . As in a dream , or as if he had been look at someth at the play , he wa consciou that the turk 's hair and beard lay upon the tabl , and that lord sannox wa lean against the wall with hi hand to hi side , laugh silent . the scream had die away now , and the dread head had drop back again upon the pillow , but dougla stone still sat motionless , and lord sannox still chuckl quietli to himself . `` It wa realli veri necessari for marion , thi oper , '' said he , `` not physic , but moral , you know , moral . '' dougla stone stoop for yard and began to play with the fring of the coverlet . hi knife tinkl down upon the ground , but he still held the forcep and someth more . `` I had long intend to make a littl exampl , '' said lord sannox , suav . `` your note of wednesday miscarri , and I have it here in my pocket-book . I took some pain in carri out my idea . the wound , by the way , wa from noth more danger than my signet ring . '' He glanc keenli at hi silent companion , and cock the small revolv which he held in hi coat pocket . but dougla stone wa still pick at the coverlet . `` you see you have kept your appoint after all , '' said lord sannox . and at that dougla stone began to laugh . He laugh long and loudli . but lord sannox did not laugh now . someth like fear sharpen and harden hi featur . He walk from the room , and he walk on tipto . the old woman wa wait outsid . `` attend to your mistress when she awak , '' said lord sannox . then he went down to the street . the cab wa at the door , and the driver rais hi hand to hi hat . `` john , '' said lord sannox , `` you will take the doctor home first . He will want lead downstair , I think . tell hi butler that he ha been taken ill at a case . '' `` veri good , sir . '' `` then you can take ladi sannox home . '' `` and how about yourself , sir ? '' `` Oh , my address for the next few month will be hotel di roma , venic . just see that the letter are sent on . and tell steven to exhibit all the purpl chrysanthemum next monday , and to wire me the result . '' the terror of blue john gap the follow narr wa found among the paper of dr. jame hardcastl , who die of phthisi on februari 4th , 1908 , at 36 , upper coventri flat , south kensington . those who knew him best , while refus to express an opinion upon thi particular statement , are unanim in assert that he wa a man of a sober and scientif turn of mind , absolut devoid of imagin , and most unlik to invent ani abnorm seri of event . the paper wa contain in an envelop , which wa docket , `` A short account of the circumst which occur near miss allerton 's farm in north-west derbyshir in the spring of last year . '' the envelop wa seal , and on the other side wa written in pencil -- dear seaton , -- `` It may interest , and perhap pain you , to know that the incredul with which you met my stori ha prevent me from ever open my mouth upon the subject again . I leav thi record after my death , and perhap stranger may be found to have more confid in me than my friend . '' inquiri ha fail to elicit who thi seaton may have been . I may add that the visit of the deceas to allerton 's farm , and the gener natur of the alarm there , apart from hi particular explan , have been absolut establish . with thi foreword I append hi account exactli as he left it . It is in the form of a diari , some entri in which have been expand , while a few have been eras . april 17. -- alreadi I feel the benefit of thi wonder upland air . the farm of the allerton lie fourteen hundr and twenti feet abov sea-level , so it may well be a brace climat . beyond the usual morn cough I have veri littl discomfort , and , what with the fresh milk and the home-grown mutton , I have everi chanc of put on weight . I think saunderson will be pleas . the two miss allerton are charmingli quaint and kind , two dear littl hard-work old maid , who are readi to lavish all the heart which might have gone out to husband and to children upon an invalid stranger . truli , the old maid is a most use person , one of the reserv forc of the commun . they talk of the superflu woman , but what would the poor superflu man do without her kindli presenc ? By the way , in their simplic they veri quickli let out the reason whi saunderson recommend their farm . the professor rose from the rank himself , and I believ that in hi youth he wa not abov scare crow in these veri field . It is a most lone spot , and the walk are picturesqu in the extrem . the farm consist of graze land lie at the bottom of an irregular valley . On each side are the fantast limeston hill , form of rock so soft that you can break it away with your hand . all thi countri is hollow . could you strike it with some gigant hammer it would boom like a drum , or possibl cave in altogeth and expos some huge subterranean sea . A great sea there must sure be , for on all side the stream run into the mountain itself , never to reappear . there are gap everywher amid the rock , and when you pass through them you find yourself in great cavern , which wind down into the bowel of the earth . I have a small bicycl lamp , and it is a perpetu joy to me to carri it into these weird solitud , and to see the wonder silver and black effect when I throw it light upon the stalactit which drape the lofti roof . shut off the lamp , and you are in the blackest dark . turn it on , and it is a scene from the arabian night . but there is one of these strang open in the earth which ha a special interest , for it is the handiwork , not of natur , but of man . I had never heard of blue john when I came to these part . It is the name given to a peculiar miner of a beauti purpl shade , which is onli found at one or two place in the world . It is so rare that an ordinari vase of blue john would be valu at a great price . the roman , with that extraordinari instinct of their , discov that it wa to be found in thi valley , and sank a horizont shaft deep into the mountain side . the open of their mine ha been call blue john gap , a clean-cut arch in the rock , the mouth all overgrown with bush . It is a goodli passag which the roman miner have cut , and it intersect some of the great water-worn cave , so that if you enter blue john gap you would do well to mark your step and to have a good store of candl , or you may never make your way back to the daylight again . I have not yet gone deepli into it , but thi veri day I stood at the mouth of the arch tunnel , and peer down into the black recess beyond , I vow that when my health return I would devot some holiday to explor those mysteri depth and find out for myself how far the roman had penetr into the derbyshir hill . strang how superstiti these countrymen are ! I should have thought better of young armitag , for he is a man of some educ and charact , and a veri fine fellow for hi station in life . I wa stand at the blue john gap when he came across the field to me . `` well , doctor , '' said he , `` you 're not afraid , anyhow . '' `` afraid ! '' I answer . `` afraid of what ? '' `` Of it , '' said he , with a jerk of hi thumb toward the black vault , `` of the terror that live in the blue john cave . '' how absurdli easi it is for a legend to aris in a lone countrysid ! I examin him as to the reason for hi weird belief . It seem that from time to time sheep have been miss from the field , carri bodili away , accord to armitag . that they could have wander away of their own accord and disappear among the mountain wa an explan to which he would not listen . On one occas a pool of blood had been found , and some tuft of wool . that also , I point out , could be explain in a perfectli natur way . further , the night upon which sheep disappear were invari veri dark , cloudi night with no moon . thi I met with the obviou retort that those were the night which a commonplac sheep-steal would natur choos for hi work . On one occas a gap had been made in a wall , and some of the stone scatter for a consider distanc . human agenc again , in my opinion . final , armitag clinch all hi argument by tell me that he had actual heard the creatur -- inde , that anyon could hear it who remain long enough at the gap . It wa a distant roar of an immens volum . I could not but smile at thi , know , as I do , the strang reverber which come out of an underground water system run amid the chasm of a limeston format . My incredul annoy armitag so that he turn and left me with some abrupt . and now come the queer point about the whole busi . I wa still stand near the mouth of the cave turn over in my mind the variou statement of armitag , and reflect how readili they could be explain away , when suddenli , from the depth of the tunnel besid me , there issu a most extraordinari sound . how shall I describ it ? first of all , it seem to be a great distanc away , far down in the bowel of the earth . secondli , in spite of thi suggest of distanc , it wa veri loud . lastli , it wa not a boom , nor a crash , such as one would associ with fall water or tumbl rock , but it wa a high whine , tremul and vibrat , almost like the whinni of a hors . It wa certainli a most remark experi , and one which for a moment , I must admit , gave a new signific to armitag 's word . I wait by the blue john gap for half an hour or more , but there wa no return of the sound , so at last I wander back to the farmhous , rather mystifi by what had occur . decidedli I shall explor that cavern when my strength is restor . Of cours , armitag 's explan is too absurd for discuss , and yet that sound wa certainli veri strang . It still ring in my ear as I write . april 20. -- In the last three day I have made sever expedit to the blue john gap , and have even penetr some short distanc , but my bicycl lantern is so small and weak that I dare not trust myself veri far . I shall do the thing more systemat . I have heard no sound at all , and could almost believ that I had been the victim of some hallucin suggest , perhap , by armitag 's convers . Of cours , the whole idea is absurd , and yet I must confess that those bush at the entranc of the cave do present an appear as if some heavi creatur had forc it way through them . I begin to be keenli interest . I have said noth to the miss allerton , for they are quit superstiti enough alreadi , but I have bought some candl , and mean to investig for myself . I observ thi morn that among the numer tuft of sheep 's wool which lay among the bush near the cavern there wa one which wa smear with blood . Of cours , my reason tell me that if sheep wander into such rocki place they are like to injur themselv , and yet somehow that splash of crimson gave me a sudden shock , and for a moment I found myself shrink back in horror from the old roman arch . A fetid breath seem to ooz from the black depth into which I peer . could it inde be possibl that some nameless thing , some dread presenc , wa lurk down yonder ? I should have been incap of such feel in the day of my strength , but one grow more nervou and fanci when one 's health is shaken . for the moment I weaken in my resolut , and wa readi to leav the secret of the old mine , if one exist , for ever unsolv . but tonight my interest ha return and my nerv grown more steadi . tomorrow I trust that I shall have gone more deepli into thi matter . april 22. -- let me tri and set down as accur as I can my extraordinari experi of yesterday . I start in the afternoon , and made my way to the blue john gap . I confess that my misgiv return as I gaze into it depth , and I wish that I had brought a companion to share my explor . final , with a return of resolut , I lit my candl , push my way through the briar , and descend into the rocki shaft . It went down at an acut angl for some fifti feet , the floor be cover with broken stone . thenc there extend a long , straight passag cut in the solid rock . I am no geologist , but the line of thi corridor wa certainli of some harder materi than limeston , for there were point where I could actual see the tool-mark which the old miner had left in their excav , as fresh as if they had been done yesterday . down thi strang , old-world corridor I stumbl , my feebl flame throw a dim circl of light around me , which made the shadow beyond the more threaten and obscur . final , I came to a spot where the roman tunnel open into a water-worn cavern -- a huge hall , hung with long white icicl of lime deposit . from thi central chamber I could dimli perceiv that a number of passag worn by the subterranean stream wound away into the depth of the earth . I wa stand there wonder whether I had better return , or whether I dare ventur farther into thi danger labyrinth , when my eye fell upon someth at my feet which strongli arrest my attent . the greater part of the floor of the cavern wa cover with boulder of rock or with hard incrust of lime , but at thi particular point there had been a drip from the distant roof , which had left a patch of soft mud . In the veri centr of thi there wa a huge mark -- an ill-defin blotch , deep , broad and irregular , as if a great boulder had fallen upon it . No loos stone lay near , howev , nor wa there anyth to account for the impress . It wa far too larg to be caus by ani possibl anim , and besid , there wa onli the one , and the patch of mud wa of such a size that no reason stride could have cover it . As I rose from the examin of that singular mark and then look round into the black shadow which hem me in , I must confess that I felt for a moment a most unpleas sink of my heart , and that , do what I could , the candl trembl in my outstretch hand . I soon recov my nerv , howev , when I reflect how absurd it wa to associ so huge and shapeless a mark with the track of ani known anim . even an eleph could not have produc it . I determin , therefor , that I would not be scare by vagu and senseless fear from carri out my explor . befor proceed , I took good note of a curiou rock format in the wall by which I could recogn the entranc of the roman tunnel . the precaut wa veri necessari , for the great cave , so far as I could see it , wa intersect by passag . have made sure of my posit , and reassur myself by examin my spare candl and my match , I advanc slowli over the rocki and uneven surfac of the cavern . and now I come to the point where I met with such sudden and desper disast . A stream , some twenti feet broad , ran across my path , and I walk for some littl distanc along the bank to find a spot where I could cross dry-shod . final , I came to a place where a singl flat boulder lay near the centr , which I could reach in a stride . As it chanc , howev , the rock had been cut away and made top-heavi by the rush of the stream , so that it tilt over as I land on it and shot me into the ice-cold water . My candl went out , and I found myself flounder about in utter and absolut dark . I stagger to my feet again , more amus than alarm by my adventur . the candl had fallen from my hand , and wa lost in the stream , but I had two other in my pocket , so that it wa of no import . I got one of them readi , and drew out my box of match to light it . onli then did I realiz my posit . the box had been soak in my fall into the river . It wa imposs to strike the match . A cold hand seem to close round my heart as I realiz my posit . the dark wa opaqu and horribl . It wa so utter one put one 's hand up to one 's face as if to press off someth solid . I stood still , and by an effort I steadi myself . I tri to reconstruct in my mind a map of the floor of the cavern as I had last seen it . ala ! the bear which had impress themselv upon my mind were high on the wall , and not to be found by touch . still , I rememb in a gener way how the side were situat , and I hope that by grope my way along them I should at last come to the open of the roman tunnel . move veri slowli , and continu strike against the rock , I set out on thi desper quest . but I veri soon realiz how imposs it wa . In that black , velveti dark one lost all one 's bear in an instant . befor I had made a dozen pace , I wa utterli bewild as to my whereabout . the rippl of the stream , which wa the one sound audibl , show me where it lay , but the moment that I left it bank I wa utterli lost . the idea of find my way back in absolut dark through that limeston labyrinth wa clearli an imposs one . I sat down upon a boulder and reflect upon my unfortun plight . I had not told anyon that I propos to come to the blue john mine , and it wa unlik that a search parti would come after me . therefor I must trust to my own resourc to get clear of the danger . there wa onli one hope , and that wa that the match might dri . when I fell into the river , onli half of me had got thoroughli wet . My left shoulder had remain abov the water . I took the box of match , therefor , and put it into my left armpit . the moist air of the cavern might possibl be counteract by the heat of my bodi , but even so , I knew that I could not hope to get a light for mani hour . meanwhil there wa noth for it but to wait . By good luck I had slip sever biscuit into my pocket befor I left the farm-hous . these I now devour , and wash them down with a draught from that wretch stream which had been the caus of all my misfortun . then I felt about for a comfort seat among the rock , and , have discov a place where I could get a support for my back , I stretch out my leg and settl myself down to wait . I wa wretchedli damp and cold , but I tri to cheer myself with the reflect that modern scienc prescrib open window and walk in all weather for my diseas . gradual , lull by the monoton gurgl of the stream , and by the absolut dark , I sank into an uneasi slumber . how long thi last I can not say . It may have been for an hour , it may have been for sever . suddenli I sat up on my rock couch , with everi nerv thrill and everi sens acut on the alert . beyond all doubt I had heard a sound -- some sound veri distinct from the gurgl of the water . It had pass , but the reverber of it still linger in my ear . wa it a search parti ? they would most certainli have shout , and vagu as thi sound wa which had waken me , it wa veri distinct from the human voic . I sat palpit and hardli dare to breath . there it wa again ! and again ! now it had becom continu . It wa a tread -- ye , sure it wa the tread of some live creatur . but what a tread it wa ! It gave one the impress of enorm weight carri upon sponge-lik feet , which gave forth a muffl but ear-fil sound . the dark wa as complet as ever , but the tread wa regular and decis . and it wa come beyond all question in my direct . My skin grew cold , and my hair stood on end as I listen to that steadi and ponder footfal . there wa some creatur there , and sure by the speed of it advanc , it wa one which could see in the dark . I crouch low on my rock and tri to blend myself into it . the step grew nearer still , then stop , and present I wa awar of a loud lap and gurgl . the creatur wa drink at the stream . then again there wa silenc , broken by a success of long sniff and snort of tremend volum and energi . had it caught the scent of me ? My own nostril were fill by a low fetid odour , mephit and abomin . then I heard the step again . they were on my side of the stream now . the stone rattl within a few yard of where I lay . hardli dare to breath , I crouch upon my rock . then the step drew away . I heard the splash as it return across the river , and the sound die away into the distanc in the direct from which it had come . for a long time I lay upon the rock , too much horrifi to move . I thought of the sound which I had heard come from the depth of the cave , of armitag 's fear , of the strang impress in the mud , and now came thi final and absolut proof that there wa inde some inconceiv monster , someth utterli unearthli and dread , which lurk in the hollow of the mountain . Of it natur or form I could frame no concept , save that it wa both light-foot and gigant . the combat between my reason , which told me that such thing could not be , and my sens , which told me that they were , rage within me as I lay . final , I wa almost readi to persuad myself that thi experi had been part of some evil dream , and that my abnorm condit might have conjur up an hallucin . but there remain one final experi which remov the last possibl of doubt from my mind . I had taken my match from my armpit and felt them . they seem perfectli hard and dri . stoop down into a crevic of the rock , I tri one of them . To my delight it took fire at onc . I lit the candl , and , with a terrifi backward glanc into the obscur depth of the cavern , I hurri in the direct of the roman passag . As I did so I pass the patch of mud on which I had seen the huge imprint . now I stood astonish befor it , for there were three similar imprint upon it surfac , enorm in size , irregular in outlin , of a depth which indic the ponder weight which had left them . then a great terror surg over me . stoop and shade my candl with my hand , I ran in a frenzi of fear to the rocki archway , hasten up it , and never stop until , with weari feet and pant lung , I rush up the final slope of stone , broke through the tangl of briar , and flung myself exhaust upon the soft grass under the peac light of the star . It wa three in the morn when I reach the farm-hous , and today I am all unstrung and quiver after my terrif adventur . As yet I have told no one . I must move warili in the matter . what would the poor lone women , or the uneduc yokel here think of it if I were to tell them my experi ? let me go to someon who can understand and advis . april 25. -- I wa laid up in bed for two day after my incred adventur in the cavern . I use the adject with a veri definit mean , for I have had an experi sinc which ha shock me almost as much as the other . I have said that I wa look round for someon who could advis me . there is a dr. mark johnson who practic some few mile away , to whom I had a note of recommend from professor saunderson . To him I drove , when I wa strong enough to get about , and I recount to him my whole strang experi . He listen intent , and then care examin me , pay special attent to my reflex and to the pupil of my eye . when he had finish , he refus to discuss my adventur , say that it wa entir beyond him , but he gave me the card of a mr. picton at castleton , with the advic that I should instantli go to him and tell him the stori exactli as I had done to himself . He wa , accord to my advis , the veri man who wa pre-emin suit to help me . I went on to the station , therefor , and made my way to the littl town , which is some ten mile away . mr. picton appear to be a man of import , as hi brass plate wa display upon the door of a consider build on the outskirt of the town . I wa about to ring hi bell , when some misgiv came into my mind , and , cross to a neighbour shop , I ask the man behind the counter if he could tell me anyth of mr. picton . `` whi , '' said he , `` he is the best mad doctor in derbyshir , and yonder is hi asylum . '' you can imagin that it wa not long befor I had shaken the dust of castleton from my feet and return to the farm , curs all unimagin pedant who can not conceiv that there may be thing in creation which have never yet chanc to come across their mole 's vision . after all , now that I am cooler , I can afford to admit that I have been no more sympathet to armitag than dr. johnson ha been to me . april 27 . when I wa a student I had the reput of be a man of courag and enterpris . I rememb that when there wa a ghost-hunt at coltbridg it wa I who sat up in the haunt hous . Is it advanc year ( after all , I am onli thirty-f ) , or is it thi physic maladi which ha caus degener ? certainli my heart quail when I think of that horribl cavern in the hill , and the certainti that it ha some monstrou occup . what shall I do ? there is not an hour in the day that I do not debat the question . If I say noth , then the mysteri remain unsolv . If I do say anyth , then I have the altern of mad alarm over the whole countrysid , or of absolut incredul which may end in consign me to an asylum . On the whole , I think that my best cours is to wait , and to prepar for some expedit which shall be more deliber and better thought out than the last . As a first step I have been to castleton and obtain a few essenti -- a larg acetylen lantern for one thing , and a good double-barrel sport rifl for anoth . the latter I have hire , but I have bought a dozen heavi game cartridg , which would bring down a rhinocero . now I am readi for my troglodyt friend . give me better health and a littl spate of energi , and I shall tri conclus with him yet . but who and what is he ? Ah ! there is the question which stand between me and my sleep . how mani theori do I form , onli to discard each in turn ! It is all so utterli unthink . and yet the cri , the footmark , the tread in the cavern -- no reason can get past these I think of the old-world legend of dragon and of other monster . were they , perhap , not such fairy-tal as we have thought ? can it be that there is some fact which underli them , and am I , of all mortal , the one who is chosen to expos it ? may 3. -- for sever day I have been laid up by the vagari of an english spring , and dure those day there have been develop , the true and sinist mean of which no one can appreci save myself . I may say that we have had cloudi and moonless night of late , which accord to my inform were the season upon which sheep disappear . well , sheep have disappear . two of miss allerton 's , one of old pearson 's of the cat walk , and one of mrs. moulton 's . four in all dure three night . No trace is left of them at all , and the countrysid is buzz with rumour of gipsi and of sheep-steal . but there is someth more seriou than that . young armitag ha disappear also . He left hi moorland cottag earli on wednesday night and ha never been heard of sinc . He wa an unattach man , so there is less sensat than would otherwis be the case . the popular explan is that he owe money , and ha found a situat in some other part of the countri , whenc he will present write for hi belong . but I have grave misgiv . Is it not much more like that the recent tragedi of the sheep ha caus him to take some step which may have end in hi own destruct ? He may , for exampl , have lain in wait for the creatur and been carri off by it into the recess of the mountain . what an inconceiv fate for a civil englishman of the twentieth centuri ! and yet I feel that it is possibl and even probabl . but in that case , how far am I answer both for hi death and for ani other mishap which may occur ? sure with the knowledg I alreadi possess it must be my duti to see that someth is done , or if necessari to do it myself . It must be the latter , for thi morn I went down to the local police-st and told my stori . the inspector enter it all in a larg book and bow me out with commend graviti , but I heard a burst of laughter befor I had got down hi garden path . No doubt he wa recount my adventur to hi famili . june 10. -- I am write thi , prop up in bed , six week after my last entri in thi journal . I have gone through a terribl shock both to mind and bodi , aris from such an experi as ha seldom befallen a human be befor . but I have attain my end . the danger from the terror which dwell in the blue john gap ha pass never to return . thu much at least I , a broken invalid , have done for the common good . let me now recount what occur as clearli as I may . the night of friday , may 3rd , wa dark and cloudi -- the veri night for the monster to walk . about eleven o'clock I went from the farm-hous with my lantern and my rifl , have first left a note upon the tabl of my bedroom in which I said that , if I were miss , search should be made for me in the direct of the gap . I made my way to the mouth of the roman shaft , and , have perch myself among the rock close to the open , I shut off my lantern and wait patient with my load rifl readi to my hand . It wa a melancholi vigil . all down the wind valley I could see the scatter light of the farm-hous , and the church clock of chapel-le-dal toll the hour came faintli to my ear . these token of my fellow-men serv onli to make my own posit seem the more lone , and to call for a greater effort to overcom the terror which tempt me continu to get back to the farm , and abandon for ever thi danger quest . and yet there lie deep in everi man a root self-respect which make it hard for him to turn back from that which he ha onc undertaken . thi feel of person pride wa my salvat now , and it wa that alon which held me fast when everi instinct of my natur wa drag me away . I am glad now that I had the strength . In spite of all that is ha cost me , my manhood is at least abov reproach . twelv o'clock struck in the distant church , then one , then two . It wa the darkest hour of the night . the cloud were drift low , and there wa not a star in the sky . An owl wa hoot somewher among the rock , but no other sound , save the gentl sough of the wind , came to my ear . and then suddenli I heard it ! from far away down the tunnel came those muffl step , so soft and yet so ponder . I heard also the rattl of stone as they gave way under that giant tread . they drew nearer . they were close upon me . I heard the crash of the bush round the entranc , and then dimli through the dark I wa consciou of the loom of some enorm shape , some monstrou inchoat creatur , pass swiftli and veri silent out from the tunnel . I wa paralys with fear and amaz . long as I had wait , now that it had actual come I wa unprepar for the shock . I lay motionless and breathless , whilst the great dark mass whisk by me and wa swallow up in the night . but now I nerv myself for it return . No sound came from the sleep countrysid to tell of the horror which wa loos . In no way could I judg how far off it wa , what it wa do , or when it might be back . but not a second time should my nerv fail me , not a second time should it pass unchalleng . I swore it between my clench teeth as I laid my cock rifl across the rock . and yet it nearli happen . there wa no warn of approach now as the creatur pass over the grass . suddenli , like a dark , drift shadow , the huge bulk loom up onc more befor me , make for the entranc of the cave . again came that paralysi of volit which held my crook forefing impot upon the trigger . but with a desper effort I shook it off . even as the brushwood rustl , and the monstrou beast blend with the shadow of the gap , I fire at the retreat form . In the blaze of the gun I caught a glimps of a great shaggi mass , someth with rough and bristl hair of a wither grey colour , fade away to white in it lower part , the huge bodi support upon short , thick , curv leg . I had just that glanc , and then I heard the rattl of the stone as the creatur tore down into it burrow . In an instant , with a triumphant revuls of feel , I had cast my fear to the wind , and uncov my power lantern , with my rifl in my hand , I sprang down from my rock and rush after the monster down the old roman shaft . My splendid lamp cast a brilliant flood of vivid light in front of me , veri differ from the yellow glimmer which had aid me down the same passag onli twelv day befor . As I ran , I saw the great beast lurch along befor me , it huge bulk fill up the whole space from wall to wall . it hair look like coars fade oakum , and hung down in long , dens mass which sway as it move . It wa like an enorm unclip sheep in it fleec , but in size it wa far larger than the largest eleph , and it breadth seem to be nearli as great as it height . It fill me with amaz now to think that I should have dare to follow such a horror into the bowel of the earth , but when one 's blood is up , and when one 's quarri seem to be fli , the old primev hunting-spirit awak and prudenc is cast to the wind . rifl in hand , I ran at the top of my speed upon the trail of the monster . I had seen that the creatur wa swift . now I wa to find out to my cost that it wa also veri cun . I had imagin that it wa in panic flight , and that I had onli to pursu it . the idea that it might turn upon me never enter my excit brain . I have alreadi explain that the passag down which I wa race open into a great central cave . into thi I rush , fear lest I should lose all trace of the beast . but he had turn upon hi own trace , and in a moment we were face to face . that pictur , seen in the brilliant white light of the lantern , is etch for ever upon my brain . He had rear up on hi hind leg as a bear would do , and stood abov me , enorm , menac -- such a creatur as no nightmar had ever brought to my imagin . I have said that he rear like a bear , and there wa someth bear-lik -- if one could conceiv a bear which wa ten-fold the bulk of ani bear seen upon earth -- in hi whole pose and attitud , in hi great crook foreleg with their ivory-whit claw , in hi rug skin , and in hi red , gape mouth , fring with monstrou fang . onli in one point did he differ from the bear , or from ani other creatur which walk the earth , and even at that suprem moment a shudder of horror pass over me as I observ that the eye which glisten in the glow of my lantern were huge , project bulb , white and sightless . for a moment hi great paw swung over my head . the next he fell forward upon me , I and my broken lantern crash to the earth , and I rememb no more . when I came to myself I wa back in the farm-hous of the allerton . two day had pass sinc my terribl adventur in the blue john gap . It seem that I had lain all night in the cave insens from concuss of the brain , with my left arm and two rib badli fractur . In the morn my note had been found , a search parti of a dozen farmer assembl , and I had been track down and carri back to my bedroom , where I had lain in high delirium ever sinc . there wa , it seem , no sign of the creatur , and no bloodstain which would show that my bullet had found him as he pass . save for my own plight and the mark upon the mud , there wa noth to prove that what I said wa true . six week have now elaps , and I am abl to sit out onc more in the sunshin . just opposit me is the steep hillsid , grey with shali rock , and yonder on it flank is the dark cleft which mark the open of the blue john gap . but it is no longer a sourc of terror . never again through that ill-omen tunnel shall ani strang shape flit out into the world of men . the educ and the scientif , the dr. johnson and the like , may smile at my narr , but the poorer folk of the countrysid had never a doubt as to it truth . On the day after my recov conscious they assembl in their hundr round the blue john gap . As the castleton courier said : `` It wa useless for our correspond , or for ani of the adventur gentlemen who had come from matlock , buxton , and other part , to offer to descend , to explor the cave to the end , and to final test the extraordinari narr of dr. jame hardcastl . the countri peopl had taken the matter into their own hand , and from an earli hour of the morn they had work hard in stop up the entranc of the tunnel . there is a sharp slope where the shaft begin , and great boulder , roll along by mani will hand , were thrust down it until the gap wa absolut seal . So end the episod which ha caus such excit throughout the countri . local opinion is fierc divid upon the subject . On the one hand are those who point to dr. hardcastl 's impair health , and to the possibl of cerebr lesion of tubercular origin give rise to strang hallucin . some ide fix , accord to these gentlemen , caus the doctor to wander down the tunnel , and a fall among the rock wa suffici to account for hi injuri . On the other hand , a legend of a strang creatur in the gap ha exist for some month back , and the farmer look upon dr. hardcastl 's narr and hi person injuri as a final corrobor . So the matter stand , and so the matter will continu to stand , for no definit solut seem to us to be now possibl . It transcend human wit to give ani scientif explan which could cover the alleg fact . '' perhap befor the courier publish these word they would have been wise to send their repres to me . I have thought the matter out , as no one els ha occas to do , and it is possibl that I might have remov some of the more obviou difficulti of the narr and brought it one degre nearer to scientif accept . let me then write down the onli explan which seem to me to elucid what I know to my cost to have been a seri of fact . My theori may seem to be wildli improb , but at least no one can ventur to say that it is imposs . My view is -- and it wa form , as is shown by my diari , befor my person adventur -- that in thi part of england there is a vast subterranean lake or sea , which is fed by the great number of stream which pass down through the limeston . where there is a larg collect of water there must also be some evapor , mist or rain , and a possibl of veget . thi in turn suggest that there may be anim life , aris , as the veget life would also do , from those seed and type which had been introduc at an earli period of the world 's histori , when commun with the outer air wa more easi . thi place had then develop a fauna and flora of it own , includ such monster as the one which I had seen , which may well have been the old cave-bear , enorm enlarg and modifi by it new environ . for countless aeon the intern and the extern creation had kept apart , grow steadili away from each other . then there had come some rift in the depth of the mountain which had enabl one creatur to wander up and , by mean of the roman tunnel , to reach the open air . like all subterranean life , it had lost the power of sight , but thi had no doubt been compens for by natur in other direct . certainli it had some mean of find it way about , and of hunt down the sheep upon the hillsid . As to it choic of dark night , it is part of my theori that light wa pain to those great white eyebal , and that it wa onli a pitch-black world which it could toler . perhap , inde , it wa the glare of my lantern which save my life at that aw moment when we were face to face . So I read the riddl . I leav these fact behind me , and if you can explain them , do so ; or if you choos to doubt them , do so . neither your belief nor your incredul can alter them , nor affect one whose task is nearli over . So end the strang narr of dr. jame hardcastl . the brazilian cat It is hard luck on a young fellow to have expens tast , great expect , aristocrat connect , but no actual money in hi pocket , and no profess by which he may earn ani . the fact wa that my father , a good , sanguin , easy-go man , had such confid in the wealth and benevol of hi bachelor elder brother , lord southerton , that he took it for grant that I , hi onli son , would never be call upon to earn a live for myself . He imagin that if there were not a vacanc for me on the great southerton estat , at least there would be found some post in that diplomat servic which still remain the special preserv of our privileg class . He die too earli to realiz how fals hi calcul had been . neither my uncl nor the state took the slightest notic of me , or show ani interest in my career . An occasion brace of pheasant , or basket of hare , wa all that ever reach me to remind me that I wa heir to otwel hous and one of the richest estat in the countri . In the meantim , I found myself a bachelor and man about town , live in a suit of apart in grosvenor mansion , with no occup save that of pigeon-shoot and polo-play at hurlingham . month by month I realiz that it wa more and more difficult to get the broker to renew my bill , or to cash ani further post-obit upon an unentail properti . ruin lay right across my path , and everi day I saw it clearer , nearer , and more absolut unavoid . what made me feel my own poverti the more wa that , apart from the great wealth of lord southerton , all my other relat were fairli well-to-do . the nearest of these wa everard king , my father 's nephew and my own first cousin , who had spent an adventur life in brazil , and had now return to thi countri to settl down on hi fortun . We never knew how he made hi money , but he appear to have plenti of it , for he bought the estat of greyland , near clipton-on-the-marsh , in suffolk . for the first year of hi resid in england he took no more notic of me than my miserli uncl ; but at last one summer morn , to my veri great relief and joy , I receiv a letter ask me to come down that veri day and spend a short visit at greyland court . I wa expect a rather long visit to bankruptci court at the time , and thi interrupt seem almost providenti . If I could onli get on term with thi unknown rel of mine , I might pull through yet . for the famili credit he could not let me go entir to the wall . I order my valet to pack my valis , and I set off the same even for clipton-on-the-marsh . after chang at ipswich , a littl local train deposit me at a small , desert station lie amidst a roll grassi countri , with a sluggish and wind river curv in and out amidst the valley , between high , silt bank , which show that we were within reach of the tide . No carriag wa await me ( I found afterward that my telegram had been delay ) , so I hire a dogcart at the local inn . the driver , an excel fellow , wa full of my rel 's prais , and I learn from him that mr. everard king wa alreadi a name to conjur with in that part of the counti . He had entertain the school-children , he had thrown hi ground open to visitor , he had subscrib to chariti -- in short , hi benevol had been so univers that my driver could onli account for it on the supposit that he had parliamentari ambit . My attent wa drawn away from my driver 's panegyr by the appear of a veri beauti bird which settl on a telegraph-post besid the road . At first I thought that it wa a jay , but it wa larger , with a brighter plumag . the driver account for it presenc at onc by say that it belong to the veri man whom we were about to visit . It seem that the acclimat of foreign creatur wa one of hi hobbi , and that he had brought with him from brazil a number of bird and beast which he wa endeavour to rear in england . when onc we had pass the gate of greyland park we had ampl evid of thi tast of hi . some small spot deer , a curiou wild pig known , I believ , as a peccari , a gorgeous feather oriol , some sort of armadillo , and a singular lumber in-to beast like a veri fat badger , were among the creatur which I observ as we drove along the wind avenu . mr. everard king , my unknown cousin , wa stand in person upon the step of hi hous , for he had seen us in the distanc , and guess that it wa I . hi appear wa veri home and benevol , short and stout , forty-f year old , perhap , with a round , good-humour face , burn brown with the tropic sun , and shot with a thousand wrinkl . He wore white linen cloth , in true planter style , with a cigar between hi lip , and a larg panama hat upon the back of hi head . It wa such a figur as one associ with a verandah bungalow , and it look curious out of place in front of thi broad , stone english mansion , with it solid wing and it palladio pillar befor the doorway . `` My dear ! '' he cri , glanc over hi shoulder ; `` my dear , here is our guest ! welcom , welcom to greyland ! I am delight to make your acquaint , cousin marshal , and I take it as a great compliment that you should honour thi sleepi littl countri place with your presenc . '' noth could be more hearti than hi manner , and he set me at my eas in an instant . but it need all hi cordial to aton for the frigid and even rude of hi wife , a tall , haggard woman , who came forward at hi summon . she wa , I believ , of brazilian extract , though she spoke excel english , and I excus her manner on the score of her ignor of our custom . she did not attempt to conceal , howev , either then or afterward , that I wa no veri welcom visitor at greyland court . her actual word were , as a rule , courteou , but she wa the possessor of a pair of particularli express dark eye , and I read in them veri clearli from the first that she heartili wish me back in london onc more . howev , my debt were too press and my design upon my wealthi rel were too vital for me to allow them to be upset by the ill-temp of hi wife , so I disregard her cold and reciproc the extrem cordial of hi welcom . No pain had been spare by him to make me comfort . My room wa a charm one . He implor me to tell him anyth which could add to my happi . It wa on the tip of my tongu to inform him that a blank chequ would materi help toward that end , but I felt that it might be prematur in the present state of our acquaint . the dinner wa excel , and as we sat togeth afterward over hi havana and coffe , which later he told me wa special prepar upon hi own plantat , it seem to me that all my driver 's eulog were justifi , and that I had never met a more large-heart and hospit man . but , in spite of hi cheeri good natur , he wa a man with a strong will and a fieri temper of hi own . Of thi I had an exampl upon the follow morn . the curiou avers which mrs. everard king had conceiv toward me wa so strong , that her manner at breakfast wa almost offens . but her mean becam unmistak when her husband had quit the room . `` the best train in the day is at twelve-fifteen , '' said she . `` but I wa not think of go today , '' I answer , frankli -- perhap even defiantli , for I wa determin not to be driven out by thi woman . `` Oh , if it rest with you -- '' said she , and stop with a most insol express in her eye . `` I am sure , '' I answer , `` that mr. everard king would tell me if I were outstay my welcom . '' `` what 's thi ? what 's thi ? '' said a voic , and there he wa in the room . He had overheard my last word , and a glanc at our face had told him the rest . In an instant hi chubbi , cheeri face set into an express of absolut feroc . `` might I troubl you to walk outsid , marshal ? '' said he . ( I may mention that my own name is marshal king . ) He close the door behind me , and then , for an instant , I heard him talk in a low voic of concentr passion to hi wife . thi gross breach of hospit had evid hit upon hi tenderest point . I am no eavesdropp , so I walk out on to the lawn . present I heard a hurri step behind me , and there wa the ladi , her face pale with excit , and her eye red with tear . `` My husband ha ask me to apolog to you , mr. marshal king , '' said she , stand with downcast eye befor me . `` pleas do not say anoth word , mr . king . '' her dark eye suddenli blaze out at me . `` you fool ! '' she hiss , with frantic vehem , and turn on her heel swept back to the hous . the insult wa so outrag , so insuffer , that I could onli stand stare after her in bewilder . I wa still there when my host join me . He wa hi cheeri , chubbi self onc more . `` I hope that my wife ha apolog for her foolish remark , '' said he . `` Oh , ye -- ye , certainli ! '' He put hi hand through my arm and walk with me up and down the lawn . `` you must not take it serious , '' said he . `` It would griev me inexpress if you curtail your visit by one hour . the fact is -- there is no reason whi there should be ani conceal between rel -- that my poor dear wife is incred jealou . she hate that anyon -- male or femal -- should for an instant come between us . her ideal is a desert island and an etern tete-a-tet . that give you the clue to her action , which are , I confess , upon thi particular point , not veri far remov from mania . tell me that you will think no more of it . '' `` No , no ; certainli not . '' `` then light thi cigar and come round with me and see my littl menageri . '' the whole afternoon wa occupi by thi inspect , which includ all the bird , beast , and even reptil which he had import . some were free , some in cage , a few actual in the hous . He spoke with enthusiasm of hi success and hi failur , hi birth and hi death , and he would cri out in hi delight , like a schoolboy , when , as we walk , some gaudi bird would flutter up from the grass , or some curiou beast slink into the cover . final he led me down a corridor which extend from one wing of the hous . At the end of thi there wa a heavi door with a slide shutter in it , and besid it there project from the wall an iron handl attach to a wheel and a drum . A line of stout bar extend across the passag . `` I am about to show you the jewel of my collect , '' said he . `` there is onli one other specimen in europ , now that the rotterdam cub is dead . It is a brazilian cat . '' `` but how doe that differ from ani other cat ? '' `` you will soon see that , '' said he , laugh . `` will you kindli draw that shutter and look through ? '' I did so , and found that I wa gaze into a larg , empti room , with stone flag , and small , bar window upon the farther wall . In the centr of thi room , lie in the middl of a golden patch of sunlight , there wa stretch a huge creatur , as larg as a tiger , but as black and sleek as eboni . It wa simpli a veri enorm and veri well-kept black cat , and it cuddl up and bask in that yellow pool of light exactli as a cat would do . It wa so grace , so sinewi , and so gentli and smoothli diabol , that I could not take my eye from the open . `` Is n't he splendid ? '' said my host , enthusiast . `` gloriou ! I never saw such a nobl creatur . '' `` some peopl call it a black puma , but realli it is not a puma at all . that fellow is nearli eleven feet from tail to tip . four year ago he wa a littl ball of black fluff , with two yellow eye stare out of it . He wa sold me as a new-born cub up in the wild countri at the head-wat of the rio negro . they spear hi mother to death after she had kill a dozen of them . '' `` they are feroci , then ? '' `` the most absolut treacher and bloodthirsti creatur upon earth . you talk about a brazilian cat to an up-countri indian , and see him get the jump . they prefer human to game . thi fellow ha never tast live blood yet , but when he doe he will be a terror . At present he wo n't stand anyon but me in hi den . even baldwin , the groom , dare not go near him . As to me , I am hi mother and father in one . '' As he spoke he suddenli , to my astonish , open the door and slip in , close it instantli behind him . At the sound of hi voic the huge , lith creatur rose , yawn and rub it round , black head affection against hi side , while he pat and fondl it . `` now , tommi , into your cage ! '' said he . the monstrou cat walk over to one side of the room and coil itself up under a grate . everard king came out , and take the iron handl which I have mention , he began to turn it . As he did so the line of bar in the corridor began to pass through a slot in the wall and close up the front of thi grate , so as to make an effect cage . when it wa in posit he open the door onc more and invit me into the room , which wa heavi with the pungent , musti smell peculiar to the great carnivora . `` that 's how we work it , '' said he . `` We give him the run of the room for exercis , and then at night we put him in hi cage . you can let him out by turn the handl from the passag , or you can , as you have seen , coop him up in the same way . No , no , you should not do that ! '' I had put my hand between the bar to pat the glossi , heav flank . He pull it back , with a seriou face . `` I assur you that he is not safe . Do n't imagin that becaus I can take liberti with him anyon els can . He is veri exclus in hi friend -- are n't you , tommi ? Ah , he hear hi lunch come to him ! Do n't you , boy ? '' A step sound in the stone-flag passag , and the creatur had sprung to hi feet , and wa pace up and down the narrow cage , hi yellow eye gleam , and hi scarlet tongu rippl and quiver over the white line of hi jag teeth . A groom enter with a coars joint upon a tray , and thrust it through the bar to him . He pounc lightli upon it , carri it off to the corner , and there , hold it between hi paw , tore and wrench at it , rais hi bloodi muzzl everi now and then to look at us . It wa a malign and yet fascin sight . `` you ca n't wonder that I am fond of him , can you ? '' said my host , as we left the room , `` especi when you consid that I have had the rear of him . It wa no joke bring him over from the centr of south america ; but here he is safe and sound -- and , as I have said , far the most perfect specimen in europ . the peopl at the zoo are die to have him , but I realli ca n't part with him . now , I think that I have inflict my hobbi upon you long enough , so we can not do better than follow tommi 's exampl , and go to our lunch . '' My south american rel wa so engross by hi ground and their curiou occup , that I hardli gave him credit at first for have ani interest outsid them . that he had some , and press one , wa soon born in upon me by the number of telegram which he receiv . they arriv at all hour , and were alway open by him with the utmost eager and anxieti upon hi face . sometim I imagin that it must be the turf , and sometim the stock exchang , but certainli he had some veri urgent busi go forward which wa not transact upon the down of suffolk . dure the six day of my visit he had never fewer than three or four telegram a day , and sometim as mani as seven or eight . I had occupi these six day so well , that by the end of them I had succeed in get upon the most cordial term with my cousin . everi night we had sat up late in the billiard-room , he tell me the most extraordinari stori of hi adventur in america -- stori so desper and reckless , that I could hardli associ them with the brown littl , chubbi man befor me . In return , I ventur upon some of my own reminisc of london life , which interest him so much , that he vow he would come up to grosvenor mansion and stay with me . He wa anxiou to see the faster side of citi life , and certainli , though I say it , he could not have chosen a more compet guid . It wa not until the last day of my visit that I ventur to approach that which wa on my mind . I told him frankli about my pecuniari difficulti and my impend ruin , and I ask hi advic -- though I hope for someth more solid . He listen attent , puf hard at hi cigar . `` but sure , '' said he , `` you are the heir of our rel , lord southerton ? '' `` I have everi reason to believ so , but he would never make me ani allow . '' `` No , no , I have heard of hi miserli way . My poor marshal , your posit ha been a veri hard one . By the way , have you heard ani news of lord southerton 's health late ? '' `` He ha alway been in a critic condit ever sinc my childhood . '' `` exactli -- a creak hing , if ever there wa one . your inherit may be a long way off . dear me , how awkwardli situat you are ! '' `` I had some hope , sir , that you , know all the fact , might be inclin to advanc -- -- '' `` Do n't say anoth word , my dear boy , '' he cri , with the utmost cordial ; `` we shall talk it over tonight , and I give you my word that whatev is in my power shall be done . '' I wa not sorri that my visit wa draw to a close , for it is unpleas to feel that there is one person in the hous who eagerli desir your departur . mrs. king 's sallow face and forbid eye had becom more and more hate to me . she wa no longer activ rude -- her fear of her husband prevent her -- but she push her insan jealousi to the extent of ignor me , never address me , and in everi way make my stay at greyland as uncomfort as she could . So offens wa her manner dure that last day , that I should certainli have left had it not been for that interview with my host in the even which would , I hope , retriev my broken fortun . It wa veri late when it occur , for my rel , who had been receiv even more telegram than usual dure the day , went off to hi studi after dinner , and onli emerg when the household had retir to bed . I heard him go round lock the door , as custom wa of a night , and final he join me in the billiard-room . hi stout figur wa wrap in a dressing-gown , and he wore a pair of red turkish slipper without ani heel . settl down into an arm-chair , he brew himself a glass of grog , in which I could not help notic that the whiski consider predomin over the water . `` My word ! '' said he , `` what a night ! '' It wa , inde . the wind wa howl and scream round the hous , and the lattic window rattl and shook as if they were come in . the glow of the yellow lamp and the flavour of our cigar seem the brighter and more fragrant for the contrast . `` now , my boy , '' said my host , `` we have the hous and the night to ourselv . let me have an idea of how your affair stand , and I will see what can be done to set them in order . I wish to hear everi detail . '' thu encourag , I enter into a long exposit , in which all my tradesmen and creditor from my landlord to my valet , figur in turn . I had note in my pocket-book , and I marshal my fact , and gave , I flatter myself , a veri businesslik statement of my own unbusinesslik way and lament posit . I wa depress , howev , to notic that my companion 's eye were vacant and hi attent elsewher . when he did occasion throw out a remark it wa so entir perfunctori and pointless , that I wa sure he had not in the least follow my remark . everi now and then he rous himself and put on some show of interest , ask me to repeat or to explain more fulli , but it wa alway to sink onc more into the same brown studi . At last he rose and threw the end of hi cigar into the grate . `` I 'll tell you what , my boy , '' said he . `` I never had a head for figur , so you will excus me . you must jot it all down upon paper , and let me have a note of the amount . I 'll understand it when I see it in black and white . '' the propos wa encourag . I promis to do so . `` and now it 's time we were in bed . By jove , there 's one o'clock strike in the hall . '' the tingl of the chime clock broke through the deep roar of the gale . the wind wa sweep past with the rush of a great river . `` I must see my cat befor I go to bed , '' said my host . `` A high wind excit him . will you come ? '' `` certainli , '' said I . `` then tread softli and do n't speak , for everyon is asleep . '' We pass quietli down the lamp-lit persian-rug hall , and through the door at the farther end . all wa dark in the stone corridor , but a stabl lantern hung on a hook , and my host took it down and lit it . there wa no grate visibl in the passag , so I knew that the beast wa in it cage . `` come in ! '' said my rel , and open the door . A deep growl as we enter show that the storm had realli excit the creatur . In the flicker light of the lantern , we saw it , a huge black mass coil in the corner of it den and throw a squat , uncouth shadow upon the whitewash wall . it tail switch angrili among the straw . `` poor tommi is not in the best of temper , '' said everard king , hold up the lantern and look in at him . `` what a black devil he look , doe n't he ? I must give him a littl supper to put him in a better humour . would you mind hold the lantern for a moment ? '' I took it from hi hand and he step to the door . `` hi larder is just outsid here , '' said he . `` you will excus me for an instant wo n't you ? '' He pass out , and the door shut with a sharp metal click behind him . that hard crisp sound made my heart stand still . A sudden wave of terror pass over me . A vagu percept of some monstrou treacheri turn me cold . I sprang to the door , but there wa no handl upon the inner side . `` here ! '' I cri . `` let me out ! '' `` all right ! Do n't make a row ! '' said my host from the passag . `` you 've got the light all right . '' `` ye , but I do n't care about be lock in alon like thi . '' `` Do n't you ? '' I heard hi hearti , chuckl laugh . `` you wo n't be alon long . '' `` let me out , sir ! '' I repeat angrili . `` I tell you I do n't allow practic joke of thi sort . '' `` practic is the word , '' said he , with anoth hate chuckl . and then suddenli I heard , amidst the roar of the storm , the creak and whine of the winch-handl turn and the rattl of the grate as it pass through the slot . great god , he wa let loos the brazilian cat ! In the light of the lantern I saw the bar slide slowli befor me . alreadi there wa an open a foot wide at the farther end . with a scream I seiz the last bar with my hand and pull with the strength of a madman . I wa a madman with rage and horror . for a minut or more I held the thing motionless . I knew that he wa strain with all hi forc upon the handl , and that the leverag wa sure to overcom me . I gave inch by inch , my feet slide along the stone , and all the time I beg and pray thi inhuman monster to save me from thi horribl death . I conjur him by hi kinship . I remind him that I wa hi guest ; I beg to know what harm I had ever done him . hi onli answer were the tug and jerk upon the handl , each of which , in spite of all my struggl , pull anoth bar through the open . cling and clutch , I wa drag across the whole front of the cage , until at last , with ach wrist and lacer finger , I gave up the hopeless struggl . the grate clang back as I releas it , and an instant later I heard the shuffl of the turkish slipper in the passag , and the slam of the distant door . then everyth wa silent . the creatur had never move dure thi time . He lay still in the corner , and hi tail had ceas switch . thi apparit of a man adher to hi bar and drag scream across him had appar fill him with amaz . I saw hi great eye stare steadili at me . I had drop the lantern when I seiz the bar , but it still burn upon the floor , and I made a movement to grasp it , with some idea that it light might protect me . but the instant I move , the beast gave a deep and menac growl . I stop and stood still , quiver with fear in everi limb . the cat ( if one may call so fear a creatur by so home a name ) wa not more than ten feet from me . the eye glimmer like two disk of phosphoru in the dark . they appal and yet fascin me . I could not take my own eye from them . natur play strang trick with us at such moment of intens , and those glimmer light wax and wane with a steadi rise and fall . sometim they seem to be tini point of extrem brillianc -- littl electr spark in the black obscur -- then they would widen and widen until all that corner of the room wa fill with their shift and sinist light . and then suddenli they went out altogeth . the beast had close it eye . I do not know whether there may be ani truth in the old idea of the domin of the human gaze , or whether the huge cat wa simpli drowsi , but the fact remain that , far from show ani symptom of attack me , it simpli rest it sleek , black head upon it huge forepaw and seem to sleep . I stood , fear to move lest I should rous it into malign life onc more . but at least I wa abl to think clearli now that the bale eye were off me . here I wa shut up for the night with the feroci beast . My own instinct , to say noth of the word of the plausibl villain who laid thi trap for me , warn me that the anim wa as savag as it master . how could I stave it off until morn ? the door wa hopeless , and so were the narrow , bar window . there wa no shelter anywher in the bare , stone-flag room . To cri for assist wa absurd . I knew that thi den wa an outhous , and that the corridor which connect it with the hous wa at least a hundr feet long . besid , with the gale thunder outsid , my cri were not like to be heard . I had onli my own courag and my own wit to trust to . and then , with a fresh wave of horror , my eye fell upon the lantern . the candl had burn low , and wa alreadi begin to gutter . In ten minut it would be out . I had onli ten minut then in which to do someth , for I felt that if I were onc left in the dark with that fear beast I should be incap of action . the veri thought of it paralys me . I cast my despair eye round thi chamber of death , and they rest upon one spot which seem to promis I will not say safeti , but less immedi and immin danger than the open floor . I have said that the cage had a top as well as a front , and thi top wa left stand when the front wa wound through the slot in the wall . It consist of bar at a few inch ' interv , with stout wire net between , and it rest upon a strong stanchion at each end . It stood now as a great bar canopi over the crouch figur in the corner . the space between thi iron shelf and the roof may have been from two or three feet . If I could onli get up there , squeez in between bar and ceil , I should have onli one vulner side . I should be safe from below , from behind , and from each side . onli on the open face of it could I be attack . there , it is true , I had no protect whatev ; but at least , I should be out of the brute 's path when he began to pace about hi den . He would have to come out of hi way to reach me . It wa now or never , for if onc the light were out it would be imposs . with a gulp in my throat I sprang up , seiz the iron edg of the top , and swung myself pant on to it . I writh in face downward , and found myself look straight into the terribl eye and yawn jaw of the cat . it fetid breath came up into my face like the steam from some foul pot . It appear , howev , to be rather curiou than angri . with a sleek rippl of it long , black back it rose , stretch itself , and then rear itself on it hind leg , with one forepaw against the wall , it rais the other , and drew it claw across the wire mesh beneath me . one sharp , white hook tore through my trouser -- for I may mention that I wa still in even dress -- and dug a furrow in my knee . It wa not meant as an attack , but rather as an experi , for upon my give a sharp cri of pain he drop down again , and spring lightli into the room , he began walk swiftli round it , look up everi now and again in my direct . for my part I shuffl backward until I lay with my back against the wall , screw myself into the smallest space possibl . the farther I got the more difficult it wa for him to attack me . He seem more excit now that he had begun to move about , and he ran swiftli and noiselessli round and round the den , pass continu underneath the iron couch upon which I lay . It wa wonder to see so great a bulk pass like a shadow , with hardli the softest thud of velveti pad . the candl wa burn low -- so low that I could hardli see the creatur . and then , with a last flare and splutter it went out altogeth . I wa alon with the cat in the dark ! It help one to face a danger when one know that one ha done all that possibl can be done . there is noth for it then but to quietli await the result . In thi case , there wa no chanc of safeti anywher except the precis spot where I wa . I stretch myself out , therefor , and lay silent , almost breathlessli , hope that the beast might forget my presenc if I did noth to remind him . I reckon that it must alreadi be two o'clock . At four it would be full dawn . I had not more than two hour to wait for daylight . outsid , the storm wa still rage , and the rain lash continu against the littl window . insid , the poison and fetid air wa overpow . I could neither hear nor see the cat . I tri to think about other thing -- but onli one had power enough to draw my mind from my terribl posit . that wa the contempl of my cousin 's villaini , hi unparallel hypocrisi , hi malign hatr of me . beneath that cheer face there lurk the spirit of a mediaev assassin . and as I thought of it I saw more clearli how cunningli the thing had been arrang . He had appar gone to bed with the other . No doubt he had hi wit to prove it . then , unknown to them , he had slip down , had lure me into hi den and abandon me . hi stori would be so simpl . He had left me to finish my cigar in the billiard-room . I had gone down on my own account to have a last look at the cat . I had enter the room without observ that the cage wa open , and I had been caught . how could such a crime be brought home to him ? suspicion , perhap -- but proof , never ! how slowli those dread two hour went by ! onc I heard a low , rasp sound , which I took to be the creatur lick it own fur . sever time those greenish eye gleam at me through the dark , but never in a fix stare , and my hope grew stronger that my presenc had been forgotten or ignor . At last the least faint glimmer of light came through the window -- I first dimli saw them as two grey squar upon the black wall , then grey turn to white , and I could see my terribl companion onc more . and he , ala , could see me ! It wa evid to me at onc that he wa in a much more danger and aggress mood than when I had seen him last . the cold of the morn had irrit him , and he wa hungri as well . with a continu growl he pace swiftli up and down the side of the room which wa farthest from my refug , hi whisker bristl angrili , and hi tail switch and lash . As he turn at the corner hi savag eye alway look upward at me with a dread menac . I knew then that he meant to kill me . yet I found myself even at that moment admir the sinuou grace of the devilish thing , it long , undul , rippl movement , the gloss of it beauti flank , the vivid , palpit scarlet of the glisten tongu which hung from the jet-black muzzl . and all the time that deep , threaten growl wa rise and rise in an unbroken crescendo . I knew that the crisi wa at hand . It wa a miser hour to meet such a death -- so cold , so comfortless , shiver in my light dress cloth upon thi gridiron of torment upon which I wa stretch . I tri to brace myself to it , to rais my soul abov it , and at the same time , with the lucid which come to a perfectli desper man , I cast round for some possibl mean of escap . one thing wa clear to me . If that front of the cage wa onli back in it posit onc more , I could find a sure refug behind it . could I possibl pull it back ? I hardli dare to move for fear of bring the creatur upon me . slowli , veri slowli , I put my hand forward until it grasp the edg of the front , the final bar which protrud through the wall . To my surpris it came quit easili to my jerk . Of cours the difficulti of draw it out aros from the fact that I wa cling to it . I pull again , and three inch of it came through . It ran appar on wheel . I pull again ... and then the cat sprang ! It wa so quick , so sudden , that I never saw it happen . I simpli heard the savag snarl , and in an instant afterward the blaze yellow eye , the flatten black head with it red tongu and flash teeth , were within reach of me . the impact of the creatur shook the bar upon which I lay , until I thought ( as far as I could think of anyth at such a moment ) that they were come down . the cat sway there for an instant , the head and front paw quit close to me , the hind paw claw to find a grip upon the edg of the grate . I heard the claw rasp as they clung to the wire-net , and the breath of the beast made me sick . but it bound had been miscalcul . It could not retain it posit . slowli , grin with rage , and scratch madli at the bar , it swung backward and drop heavili upon the floor . with a growl it instantli face round to me and crouch for anoth spring . I knew that the next few moment would decid my fate . the creatur had learn by experi . It would not miscalcul again . I must act promptli , fearlessli , if I were to have a chanc for life . In an instant I had form my plan . pull off my dress-coat , I threw it down over the head of the beast . At the same moment I drop over the edg , seiz the end of the front grate , and pull it frantic out of the wall . It came more easili than I could have expect . I rush across the room , bear it with me ; but , as I rush , the accid of my posit put me upon the outer side . had it been the other way , I might have come off scathless . As it wa , there wa a moment 's paus as I stop it and tri to pass in through the open which I had left . that moment wa enough to give time to the creatur to toss off the coat with which I had blind him and to spring upon me . I hurl myself through the gap and pull the rail to behind me , but he seiz my leg befor I could entir withdraw it . one stroke of that huge paw tore off my calf as a shave of wood curl off befor a plane . the next moment , bleed and faint , I wa lie among the foul straw with a line of friendli bar between me and the creatur which ramp so frantic against them . too wound to move , and too faint to be consciou of fear , I could onli lie , more dead than aliv , and watch it . It press it broad , black chest against the bar and angl for me with it crook paw as I have seen a kitten do befor a mouse-trap . It rip my cloth , but , stretch as it would , it could not quit reach me . I have heard of the curiou numb effect produc by wound from the great carnivora , and now I wa destin to experi it , for I had lost all sens of person , and wa as interest in the cat 's failur or success as if it were some game which I wa watch . and then gradual my mind drift away into strang vagu dream , alway with that black face and red tongu come back into them , and so I lost myself in the nirvana of delirium , the bless relief of those who are too sore tri . trace the cours of event afterward , I conclud that I must have been insens for about two hour . what rous me to conscious onc more wa that sharp metal click which had been the precursor of my terribl experi . It wa the shoot back of the spring lock . then , befor my sens were clear enough to entir apprehend what they saw , I wa awar of the round , benevol face of my cousin peer in through the open door . what he saw evid amaz him . there wa the cat crouch on the floor . I wa stretch upon my back in my shirt-sleev within the cage , my trouser torn to ribbon and a great pool of blood all round me . I can see hi amaz face now , with the morn sunlight upon it . He peer at me , and peer again . then he close the door behind him , and advanc to the cage to see if I were realli dead . I can not undertak to say what happen . I wa not in a fit state to wit or to chronicl such event . I can onli say that I wa suddenli consciou that hi face wa away from me -- that he wa look toward the anim . `` good old tommi ! '' he cri . `` good old tommi ! '' then he came near the bar , with hi back still toward me . `` down , you stupid beast ! '' he roar . `` down , sir ! Do n't you know your master ? '' suddenli even in my bemuddl brain a remembr came of those word of hi when he had said that the tast of blood would turn the cat into a fiend . My blood had done it , but he wa to pay the price . `` get away ! '' he scream . `` get away , you devil ! baldwin ! baldwin ! Oh , my god ! '' and then I heard him fall , and rise , and fall again , with a sound like the rip of sack . hi scream grew fainter until they were lost in the worri snarl . and then , after I thought that he wa dead , I saw , as in a nightmar , a blind , tatter , blood-soak figur run wildli round the room -- and that wa the last glimps which I had of him befor I faint onc again . I wa mani month in my recoveri -- in fact , I can not say that I have ever recov , for to the end of my day I shall carri a stick as a sign of my night with the brazilian cat . baldwin , the groom , and the other servant could not tell what had occur , when , drawn by the death-cri of their master , they found me behind the bar , and hi remain -- or what they afterward discov to be hi remain -- in the clutch of the creatur which he had rear . they stall him off with hot iron , and afterward shot him through the loophol of the door befor they could final extric me . I wa carri to my bedroom , and there , under the roof of my would-b murder , I remain between life and death for sever week . they had sent for a surgeon from clipton and a nurs from london , and in a month I wa abl to be carri to the station , and so convey back onc more to grosvenor mansion . I have one remembr of that ill , which might have been part of the ever-chang panorama conjur up by a deliri brain were it not so definit fix in my memori . one night , when the nurs wa absent , the door of my chamber open , and a tall woman in blackest mourn slip into the room . she came across to me , and as she bent her sallow face I saw by the faint gleam of the night-light that it wa the brazilian woman whom my cousin had marri . she stare intent into my face , and her express wa more kindli than I had ever seen it . `` are you consciou ? '' she ask . I feebli nod -- for I wa still veri weak . `` well ; then , I onli wish to say to you that you have yourself to blame . did I not do all I could for you ? from the begin I tri to drive you from the hous . By everi mean , short of betray my husband , I tri to save you from him . I knew that he had a reason for bring you here . I knew that he would never let you get away again . No one knew him as I knew him , who had suffer from him so often . I did not dare to tell you all thi . He would have kill me . but I did my best for you . As thing have turn out , you have been the best friend that I have ever had . you have set me free , and I fanci that noth but death would do that . I am sorri if you are hurt , but I can not reproach myself . I told you that you were a fool -- and a fool you have been . '' she crept out of the room , the bitter , singular woman , and I wa never destin to see her again . with what remain from her husband 's properti she went back to her nativ land , and I have heard that she afterward took the veil at pernambuco . It wa not until I had been back in london for some time that the doctor pronounc me to be well enough to do busi . It wa not a veri welcom permiss to me , for I fear that it would be the signal for an inrush of creditor ; but it wa summer , my lawyer , who first took advantag of it . `` I am veri glad to see that your lordship is so much better , '' said he . `` I have been wait a long time to offer my congratul . '' `` what do you mean , summer ? thi is no time for joke . '' `` I mean what I say , '' he answer . `` you have been lord southerton for the last six week , but we fear that it would retard your recoveri if you were to learn it . '' lord southerton ! one of the richest peer in england ! I could not believ my ear . and then suddenli I thought of the time which had elaps , and how it coincid with my injuri . `` then lord southerton must have die about the same time that I wa hurt ? '' `` hi death occur upon that veri day . '' summer look hard at me as I spoke , and I am convinc -- for he wa a veri shrewd fellow -- that he had guess the true state of the case . He paus for a moment as if await a confid from me , but I could not see what wa to be gain by expos such a famili scandal . `` ye , a veri curiou coincid , '' he continu , with the same know look . `` Of cours , you are awar that your cousin everard king wa the next heir to the estat . now , if it had been you instead of him who had been torn to piec by thi tiger , or whatev it wa , then of cours he would have been lord southerton at the present moment . '' `` No doubt , '' said I . `` and he took such an interest in it , '' said summer . `` I happen to know that the late lord southerton 's valet wa in hi pay , and that he use to have telegram from him everi few hour to tell him how he wa get on . that would be about the time when you were down there . wa it not strang that he should wish to be so well inform , sinc he knew that he wa not the direct heir ? '' `` veri strang , '' said I . `` and now , summer , if you will bring me my bill and a new cheque-book , we will begin to get thing into order . '' tale of mysteri the lost special the confess of herbert de lernac , now lie under sentenc of death at marseil , ha thrown a light upon one of the most inexplic crime of the centuri -- an incid which is , I believ , absolut unpreced in the crimin annal of ani countri : although there is a reluct to discuss the matter in offici circl , and littl inform ha been given to the press , there are still indic that the statement of thi arch-crimin is corrobor by the fact , and that we have at last found a solut for a most astound busi . As the matter is eight year old , and as it import wa somewhat obscur by a polit crisi which wa engag the public attent at the time , it may be as well to state the fact as far as we have been abl to ascertain them . they are collat from the liverpool paper of that date , from the proceed at the inquest upon john slater , the engine-driv , and from the record of the london and west coast railway compani , which have been courteous put at my dispos . briefli , they are as follow : On the 3rd of june , 1890 , a gentleman , who gave hi name as monsieur loui carat , desir an interview with mr. jame bland , the superintend of the london and west coast central station in liverpool . He wa a small man , middle-ag and dark , with a stoop which wa so mark that it suggest some deform of the spine . He wa accompani by a friend , a man of impos physiqu , whose deferenti manner and constant attent show that hi posit wa one of depend . thi friend or companion , whose name did not transpir , wa certainli a foreign , and probabl from hi swarthi complexion , either a spaniard or a south american . one peculiar wa observ in him . He carri in hi left hand a small black , leather dispatch box , and it wa notic by a sharp-ey clerk in the central offic that thi box wa fasten to hi wrist by a strap . No import wa attach to the fact at the time , but subsequ event endow it with some signific . monsieur carat wa shown up to Mr . bland 's offic , while hi companion remain outsid . monsieur carat 's busi wa quickli dispatch . He had arriv that afternoon from central america . affair of the utmost import demand that he should be in pari without the loss of an unnecessari hour . He had miss the london express . A special must be provid . money wa of no import . time wa everyth . If the compani would speed him on hi way , they might make their own term . Mr . bland struck the electr bell , summon mr. potter hood , the traffic manag , and had the matter arrang in five minut . the train would start in three-quart of an hour . It would take that time to insur that the line should be clear . the power engin call rochdal ( No . 247 on the compani 's regist ) wa attach to two carriag , with a guard 's van behind . the first carriag wa sole for the purpos of decreas the inconveni aris from the oscil . the second wa divid , as usual , into four compart , a first-class , a first-class smoke , a second-class , and a second-class smoke . the first compart , which wa nearest to the engin , wa the one allot to the travel . the other three were empti . the guard of the special train wa jame mcpherson , who had been some year in the servic of the compani . the stoker , william smith , wa a new hand . monsieur carat , upon leav the superintend 's offic , rejoin hi companion , and both of them manifest extrem impati to be off . have paid the money ask , which amount to fifti pound five shill , at the usual special rate of five shill a mile , they demand to be shown the carriag , and at onc took their seat in it , although they were assur that the better part of an hour must elaps befor the line could be clear . In the meantim a singular coincid had occur in the offic which monsieur carat had just quit . A request for a special is not a veri uncommon circumst in a rich commerci centr , but that two should be requir upon the same afternoon wa most unusu . It so happen , howev , that Mr . bland had hardli dismiss the first travel befor a second enter with a similar request . thi wa a mr. horac moor , a gentlemanli man of militari appear , who alleg that the sudden seriou ill of hi wife in london made it absolut imper that he should not lose an instant in start upon the journey . hi distress and anxieti were so evid that Mr . bland did all that wa possibl to meet hi wish . A second special wa out of the question , as the ordinari local servic wa alreadi somewhat derang by the first . there wa the altern , howev , that mr. moor should share the expens of monsieur carat 's train , and should travel in the other empti first-class compart , if monsieur carat object to have him in the one which he occupi . It wa difficult to see ani object to such an arrang , and yet monsieur carat , upon the suggest be made to him by mr. potter hood , absolut refus to consid it for an instant . the train wa hi , he said , and he would insist upon the exclus use of it . all argument fail to overcom hi ungraci object , and final the plan had to be abandon . mr. horac moor left the station in great distress , after learn that hi onli cours wa to take the ordinari slow train which leav liverpool at six o'clock . At four thirty-on exactli by the station clock the special train , contain the crippl monsieur carat and hi gigant companion , steam out of the liverpool station . the line wa at that time clear , and there should have been no stoppag befor manchest . the train of the london and west coast railway run over the line of anoth compani as far as thi town , which should have been reach by the special rather befor six o'clock . At a quarter after six consider surpris and some constern were caus amongst the offici at liverpool by the receipt of a telegram from manchest to say that it had not yet arriv . An inquiri direct to st. helen , which is a third of the way between the two citi , elicit the follow repli -- `` To jame bland , superintend , central L. & W. C. , liverpool. -- special pass here at 4:52 , well up to time. -- dowster , St . helen . '' thi telegram wa receiv at six-forti . At six-fifti a second messag wa receiv from manchest -- `` No sign of special as advis by you . '' and then ten minut later a third , more bewild -- `` presum some mistak as to propos run of special . local train from st. helen time to follow it ha just arriv and ha seen noth of it . kindli wire advices. -- manchest . '' the matter wa assum a most amaz aspect , although in some respect the last telegram wa a relief to the author at liverpool . If an accid had occur to the special , it seem hardli possibl that the local train could have pass down the same line without observ it . and yet , what wa the altern ? where could the train be ? had it possibl been sidetrack for some reason in order to allow the slower train to go past ? such an explan wa possibl if some small repair had to be effect . A telegram wa dispatch to each of the station between st. helen and manchest , and the superintend and traffic manag wait in the utmost suspens at the instrument for the seri of repli which would enabl them to say for certain what had becom of the miss train . the answer came back in the order of question , which wa the order of the station begin at the st. helen end -- `` special pass here five o'clock. -- collin green . '' `` special pass here six past five. -- earlstown . '' `` special pass here 5:10. -- newton . '' `` special pass here 5:20. -- kenyon junction . '' `` No special train ha pass here. -- barton moss . '' the two offici stare at each other in amaz . `` thi is uniqu in my thirti year of experi , '' said Mr . bland . `` absolut unpreced and inexplic , sir . the special ha gone wrong between kenyon junction and barton moss . '' `` and yet there is no side , so far as my memori serv me , between the two station . the special must have run off the metal . '' `` but how could the four-fifti parliamentari pass over the same line without observ it ? '' `` there 's no altern , Mr . hood . It must be so . possibl the local train may have observ someth which may throw some light upon the matter . We will wire to manchest for more inform , and to kenyon junction with instruct that the line be examin instantli as far as barton moss . '' the answer from manchest came within a few minut . `` No news of miss special . driver and guard of slow train posit no accid between kenyon junction and barton moss . line quit clear , and no sign of anyth unusual. -- manchest . '' `` that driver and guard will have to go , '' said Mr . bland , grimli . `` there ha been a wreck and they have miss it . the special ha obvious run off the metal without disturb the line -- how it could have done so pass my comprehens -- but so it must be , and we shall have a wire from kenyon or barton moss present to say that they have found her at the bottom of an embank . '' but Mr . bland 's propheci wa not destin to be fulfil . half an hour pass , and then there arriv the follow messag from the station-mast of kenyon junction -- `` there are no trace of the miss special . It is quit certain that she pass here , and that she did not arriv at barton moss . We have detach engin from good train , and I have myself ridden down the line , but all is clear , and there is no sign of ani accid . '' Mr . bland tore hi hair in hi perplex . `` thi is rank lunaci , hood ! '' he cri . `` doe a train vanish into thin air in england in broad daylight ? the thing is preposter . An engin , a tender , two carriag , a van , five human be -- and all lost on a straight line of railway ! unless we get someth posit within the next hour I 'll take inspector collin , and go down myself . '' and then at last someth posit did occur . It took the shape of anoth telegram from kenyon junction . `` regret to report that the dead bodi of john slater , driver of the special train , ha just been found among the gors bush at a point two and a quarter mile from the junction . had fallen from hi engin , pitch down the embank , and roll among the bush . injuri to hi head , from the fall , appear to be caus of death . ground ha now been care examin , and there is no trace of the miss train . '' the countri wa , as ha alreadi been state , in the throe of a polit crisi , and the attent of the public wa further distract by the import and sensat develop in pari , where a huge scandal threaten to destroy the govern and to wreck the reput of mani of the lead men in franc . the paper were full of these event , and the singular disappear of the special train attract less attent than would have been the case in more peac time . the grotesqu natur of the event help to detract from it import , for the paper were disinclin to believ the fact as report to them . more than one of the london journal treat the matter as an ingeni hoax , until the coron 's inquest upon the unfortun driver ( an inquest which elicit noth of import ) convinc them of the tragedi of the incid . Mr . bland , accompani by inspector collin , the senior detect offic in the servic of the compani , went down to kenyon junction the same even , and their research last throughout the follow day , but wa attend with pure neg result . not onli wa no trace found of the miss train , but no conjectur could be put forward which could possibl explain the fact . At the same time , inspector collin 's offici report ( which lie befor me as I write ) serv to show that the possibl were more numer than might have been expect . `` In the stretch of railway between these two point , '' said he , `` the countri is dot with ironwork and collieri . Of these , some are be work and some have been abandon . there are no fewer than twelv which have small-gaug line which run trolly-car down to the main line . these can , of cours , be disregard . besid these , howev , there are seven which have , or have had , proper line run down and connect with point to the main line , so as to convey their produc from the mouth of the mine to the great centr of distribut . In everi case these line are onli a few mile in length . out of the seven , four belong to collieri which are work out , or at least to shaft which are no longer use . these are the redgauntlet , hero , slough of despond , and heartseas mine , the latter have ten year ago been one of the princip mine in lancashir . these four side line may be elimin from our inquiri , for , to prevent possibl accid , the rail nearest to the main line have been taken up , and there is no longer ani connect . there remain three other side line lead -- ( a ) To the carnstock iron work ; ( b ) To the big ben collieri ; ( c ) To the persever collieri . `` Of these the big ben line is not more than a quarter of a mile long , and end at a dead wall of coal wait remov from the mouth of the mine . noth had been seen or heard there of ani special . the carnstock iron work line wa block all day upon the 3rd of june by sixteen truckload of hematit . It is a singl line , and noth could have pass . As to the persever line , it is a larg doubl line , which doe a consider traffic , for the output of the mine is veri larg . On the 3rd of june thi traffic proceed as usual ; hundr of men includ a gang of railway platelay were work along the two mile and a quarter which constitut the total length of the line , and it is inconceiv that an unexpect train could have come down there without attract univers attent . It may be remark in conclus that thi branch line is nearer to st. helen than the point at which the engine-driv wa discov , so that we have everi reason to believ that the train wa past that point befor misfortun overtook her . `` As to john slater , there is no clue to be gather from hi appear or injuri . We can onli say that , so far as we can see , he met hi end by fall off hi engin , though whi he fell , or what becam of the engin after hi fall , is a question upon which I do not feel qualifi to offer an opinion . '' In conclus , the inspector offer hi resign to the board , be much nettl by an accus of incompet in the london paper . A month elaps , dure which both the polic and the compani prosecut their inquiri without the slightest success . A reward wa offer and a pardon promis in case of crime , but they were both unclaim . everi day the public open their paper with the convict that so grotesqu a mysteri would at last be solv , but week after week pass by , and a solut remain as far off as ever . In broad daylight , upon a june afternoon in the most thickli inhabit portion of england , a train with it occup had disappear as complet as if some master of subtl chemistri had volatil it into ga . inde , among the variou conjectur which were put forward in the public press , there were some which serious assert that supernatur , or , at least , preternatur , agenc had been at work , and that the deform monsieur carat wa probabl a person who wa better known under a less polit name . other fix upon hi swarthi companion as be the author of the mischief , but what it wa exactli which he had done could never be clearli formul in word . amongst the mani suggest put forward by variou newspap or privat individu , there were one or two which were feasibl enough to attract the attent of the public . one which appear in the time , over the signatur of an amateur reason of some celebr at that date , attempt to deal with the matter in a critic and semi-scientif manner . An extract must suffic , although the curiou can see the whole letter in the issu of the 3rd of juli . `` It is one of the elementari principl of practic reason , '' he remark , `` that when the imposs ha been elimin the residuum , howev improb , must contain the truth . It is certain that the train left kenyon junction . It is certain that it did not reach barton moss . It is in the highest degre unlik , but still possibl , that it may have taken one of the seven avail side line . It is obvious imposs for a train to run where there are no rail , and , therefor , we may reduc our improb to the three open line , name the carnstock iron work , the big ben , and the persever . Is there a secret societi of collier , an english camorra , which is capabl of destroy both train and passeng ? It is improb , but it is not imposs . I confess that I am unabl to suggest ani other solut . I should certainli advis the compani to direct all their energi toward the observ of those three line , and of the workmen at the end of them . A care supervis of the pawnbrok ' shop of the district might possibl bring some suggest fact to light . '' the suggest come from a recogn author upon such matter creat consider interest , and a fierc opposit from those who consid such a statement to be a preposter libel upon an honest and deserv set of men . the onli answer to thi critic wa a challeng to the objector to lay ani more feasibl explan befor the public . In repli to thi two other were forthcom ( time , juli 7th and 9th ) . the first suggest that the train might have run off the metal and be lie submerg in the lancashir and staffordshir canal , which run parallel to the railway for some hundr of yard . thi suggest wa thrown out of court by the publish depth of the canal , which wa entir insuffici to conceal so larg an object . the second correspond wrote call attent to the bag which appear to be the sole luggag which the travel had brought with them , and suggest that some novel explos of immens and pulver power might have been conceal in it . the obviou absurd , howev , of suppos that the whole train might be blown to dust while the metal remain uninjur reduc ani such explan to a farc . the investig had drift into thi hopeless posit when a new and most unexpect incid occur . thi wa noth less than the receipt by mrs. mcpherson of a letter from her husband , jame mcpherson , who had been the guard on the miss train . the letter , which wa date juli 5th , 1890 , wa post from new york and came to hand upon juli 14th . some doubt were express as to it genuin charact but mrs. mcpherson wa posit as to the write , and the fact that it contain a remitt of a hundr dollar in five-dollar note wa enough in itself to discount the idea of a hoax . No address wa given in the letter , which ran in thi way : MY dear wife , -- `` I have been think a great deal , and I find it veri hard to give you up . the same with lizzi . I tri to fight against it , but it will alway come back to me . I send you some money which will chang into twenti english pound . thi should be enough to bring both lizzi and you across the atlant , and you will find the hamburg boat which stop at southampton veri good boat , and cheaper than liverpool . If you could come here and stop at the johnston hous I would tri and send you word how to meet , but thing are veri difficult with me at present , and I am not veri happi , find it hard to give you both up . So no more at present , from your love husband , `` jame mcpherson . '' for a time it wa confid anticip that thi letter would lead to the clear up of the whole matter , the more so as it wa ascertain that a passeng who bore a close resembl to the miss guard had travel from southampton under the name of summer in the hamburg and new york liner vistula , which start upon the 7th of june . mrs. mcpherson and her sister lizzi dolton went across to new york as direct and stay for three week at the johnston hous , without hear anyth from the miss man . It is probabl that some injudici comment in the press may have warn him that the polic were use them as a bait . howev , thi may be , it is certain that he neither wrote nor came , and the women were eventu compel to return to liverpool . and so the matter stood , and ha continu to stand up to the present year of 1898 . incred as it may seem , noth ha transpir dure these eight year which ha shed the least light upon the extraordinari disappear of the special train which contain monsieur carat and hi companion . care inquiri into the anteced of the two travel have onli establish the fact that monsieur carat wa well known as a financi and polit agent in central america , and that dure hi voyag to europ he had betray extraordinari anxieti to reach pari . hi companion , whose name wa enter upon the passeng list as eduardo gomez , wa a man whose record wa a violent one , and whose reput wa that of a bravo and a bulli . there wa evid to show , howev , that he wa honestli devot to the interest of monsieur carat , and that the latter , be a man of puni physiqu , employ the other as a guard and protector . It may be ad that no inform came from pari as to what the object of monsieur carat 's hurri journey may have been . thi compris all the fact of the case up to the public in the marseil paper of the recent confess of herbert de lernac , now under sentenc of death for the murder of a merchant name bonvalot . thi statement may be liter translat as follow : `` It is not out of mere pride or boast that I give thi inform , for , if that were my object , I could tell a dozen action of mine which are quit as splendid ; but I do it in order that certain gentlemen in pari may understand that I , who am abl here to tell about the fate of monsieur carat , can also tell in whose interest and at whose request the deed wa done , unless the repriev which I am await come to me veri quickli . take warn , messieur , befor it is too late ! you know herbert de lernac , and you are awar that hi deed are as readi as hi word . hasten then , or you are lost ! `` At present I shall mention no name -- if you onli heard the name , what would you not think ! -- but I shall mere tell you how cleverli I did it . I wa true to my employ then , and no doubt they will be true to me now . I hope so , and until I am convinc that they have betray me , these name , which would convuls europ , shall not be divulg . but on that day ... well , I say no more ! `` In a word , then , there wa a famou trial in pari , in the year 1890 , in connect with a monstrou scandal in polit and financ . how monstrou that scandal wa can never be known save by such confidenti agent as myself . the honour and career of mani of the chief men in franc were at stake . you have seen a group of ninepin stand , all so rigid , and prim , and unbend . then there come the ball from far away and pop , pop , pop -- there are your ninepin on the floor . well , imagin some of the greatest men in franc as these ninepin and then thi monsieur carat wa the ball which could be seen come from far away . If he arriv , then it wa pop , pop , pop for all of them . It wa determin that he should not arriv . `` I do not accus them all of be consciou of what wa to happen . there were , as I have said , great financi as well as polit interest at stake , and a syndic wa form to manag the busi . some subscrib to the syndic who hardli understood what were it object . but other understood veri well , and they can reli upon it that I have not forgotten their name . they had ampl warn that monsieur carat wa come long befor he left south america , and they knew that the evid which he held would certainli mean ruin to all of them . the syndic had the command of an unlimit amount of money -- absolut unlimit , you understand . they look round for an agent who wa capabl of wield thi gigant power . the man chosen must be invent , resolut , adapt -- a man in a million . they chose herbert de lernac , and I admit that they were right . `` My duti were to choos my subordin , to use freeli the power which money give , and to make certain that monsieur carat should never arriv in pari . with characterist energi I set about my commiss within an hour of receiv my instruct , and the step which I took were the veri best for the purpos which could possibl be devis . `` A man whom I could trust wa dispatch instantli to south america to travel home with monsieur carat . had he arriv in time the ship would never have reach liverpool ; but ala ! it had alreadi start befor my agent could reach it . I fit out a small arm brig to intercept it , but again I wa unfortun . like all great organ I wa , howev , prepar for failur , and had a seri of altern prepar , one or the other of which must succeed . you must not underr the difficulti of my undertak , or imagin that a mere commonplac assassin would meet the case . We must destroy not onli monsieur carat , but monsieur carat 's document , and monsieur carat 's companion also , if we had reason to believ that he had commun hi secret to them . and you must rememb that they were on the alert , and keenli suspici of ani such attempt . It wa a task which wa in everi way worthi of me , for I am alway most master where anoth would be appal . `` I wa all readi for monsieur carat 's recept in liverpool , and I wa the more eager becaus I had reason to believ that he had made arrang by which he would have a consider guard from the moment that he arriv in london . anyth which wa to be done must be done between the moment of hi set foot upon the liverpool quay and that of hi arriv at the london and west coast terminu in london . We prepar six plan , each more elabor than the last ; which plan would be use would depend upon hi own movement . Do what he would , we were readi for him . If he had stay in liverpool , we were readi . If he took an ordinari train , an express , or a special , all wa readi . everyth had been foreseen and provid for . `` you may imagin that I could not do all thi myself . what could I know of the english railway line ? but money can procur will agent all the world over , and I soon had one of the acutest brain in england to assist me . I will mention no name , but it would be unjust to claim all the credit for myself . My english alli wa worthi of such an allianc . He knew the london and west coast line thoroughli , and he had the command of a band of worker who were trustworthi and intellig . the idea wa hi , and my own judgement wa onli requir in the detail . We bought over sever offici , amongst whom the most import wa jame mcpherson , whom we had ascertain to be the guard most like to be employ upon a special train . smith , the stoker , wa also in our employ . john slater , the engine-driv , had been approach , but had been found to be obstin and danger , so we desist . We had no certainti that monsieur carat would take a special , but we thought it veri probabl , for it wa of the utmost import to him that he should reach pari without delay . It wa for thi conting , therefor , that we made special prepar -- prepar which were complet down to the last detail long befor hi steamer had sight the shore of england . you will be amus to learn that there wa one of my agent in the pilot-boat which brought that steamer to it moor . `` the moment that carat arriv in liverpool we knew that he suspect danger and wa on hi guard . He had brought with him as an escort a danger fellow , name gomez , a man who carri weapon , and wa prepar to use them . thi fellow carri carat 's confidenti paper for him , and wa readi to protect either them or hi master . the probabl wa that carat had taken him into hi counsel , and that to remov carat without remov gomez would be a mere wast of energi . It wa necessari that they should be involv in a common fate , and our plan to that end were much facilit by their request for a special train . On that special train you will understand that two out of the three servant of the compani were realli in our employ , at a price which would make them independ for a lifetim . I do not go so far as to say that the english are more honest than ani other nation , but I have found them more expens to buy . `` I have alreadi spoken of my english agent -- who is a man with a consider futur befor him , unless some complaint of the throat carri him off befor hi time . He had charg of all arrang at liverpool , whilst I wa station at the inn at kenyon , where I await a cipher signal to act . when the special wa arrang for , my agent instantli telegraph to me and warn me how soon I should have everyth readi . He himself under the name of horac moor appli immedi for a special also , in the hope that he would be sent down with monsieur carat , which might under certain circumst have been help to us . If , for exampl , our great coup had fail , it would then have becom the duti of my agent to have shot them both and destroy their paper . carat wa on hi guard , howev , and refus to admit ani other travel . My agent then left the station , return by anoth entranc , enter the guard 's van on the side farthest from the platform , and travel down with mcpherson the guard . `` In the meantim you will be interest to know what my movement were . everyth had been prepar for day befor , and onli the finish touch were need . the side line which we had chosen had onc join the main line , but it had been disconnect . We had onli to replac a few rail to connect it onc more . these rail had been laid down as far as could be done without danger of attract attent , and now it wa mere a case of complet a junctur with the line , and arrang the point as they had been befor . the sleeper had never been remov , and the rail , fish-plat and rivet were all readi , for we had taken them from a side on the abandon portion of the line . with my small but compet band of worker , we had everyth readi long befor the special arriv . when it did arriv , it ran off upon the small side line so easili that the jolt of the point appear to have been entir unnot by the two travel . `` our plan had been that smith , the stoker , should chloroform john slater , the driver , so that he should vanish with the other . In thi respect , and in thi respect onli , our plan miscarri -- I except the crimin folli of mcpherson in write home to hi wife . our stoker did hi busi so clumsili that slater in hi struggl fell off the engin , and though fortun wa with us so far that he broke hi neck in the fall , still he remain as a blot upon that which would otherwis have been one of those complet masterpiec which are onli to be contempl in silent admir . the crimin expert will find in john slater the one flaw in all our admir combin . A man who ha had as mani triumph as I can afford to be frank , and I therefor lay my finger upon john slater , and I proclaim him to be a flaw . `` but now I have got our special train upon the small line two kilometr , or rather more than one mile , in length , which lead , or rather use to lead , to the abandon heartseas mine , onc one of the largest coal mine in england . you will ask how it is that no one saw the train upon thi unus line . I answer that along it entir length it run through a deep cut , and that , unless someon had been on the edg of that cut , he could not have seen it . there wa someon on the edg of that cut . I wa there . and now I will tell you what I saw . `` My assist had remain at the point in order that he might superintend the switch off of the train . He had four arm men with him , so that if the train ran off the line -- we thought it probabl , becaus the point were veri rusti -- we might still have resourc to fall back upon . have onc seen it safe on the side line , he hand over the respons to me . I wa wait at a point which overlook the mouth of the mine , and I wa also arm , as were my two companion . come what might , you see , I wa alway readi . `` the moment that the train wa fairli on the side line , smith , the stoker , slowed-down the engin , and then , have turn it on to the fullest speed again , he and mcpherson , with my english lieuten , sprang off befor it wa too late . It may be that it wa thi slowing-down which first attract the attent of the travel , but the train wa run at full speed again befor their head appear at the open window . It make me smile to think how bewild they must have been . pictur to yourself your own feel if , on look out of your luxuri carriag , you suddenli perceiv that the line upon which you ran were rust and corrod , red and yellow with disus and decay ! what a catch must have come in their breath as in a second it flash upon them that it wa not manchest but death which wa wait for them at the end of that sinist line . but the train wa run with frantic speed , roll and rock over the rotten line , while the wheel made a fright scream sound upon the rust surfac . I wa close to them , and could see their face . carat wa pray , I think -- there wa someth like a rosari dangl out of hi hand . the other roar like a bull who smell the blood of the slaughter-hous . He saw us stand on the bank , and he beckon to us like a madman . then he tore at hi wrist and threw hi dispatch-box out of the window in our direct . Of cours , hi mean wa obviou . here wa the evid , and they would promis to be silent if their live were spare . It would have been veri agreeabl if we could have done so , but busi is busi . besid , the train wa now as much beyond our control as their . `` He ceas howl when the train rattl round the curv and they saw the black mouth of the mine yawn befor them . We had remov the board which had cover it , and we had clear the squar entranc . the rail had formerli run veri close to the shaft for the conveni of load the coal , and we had onli to add two or three length of rail in order to lead to the veri brink of the shaft . In fact , as the length would not quit fit , our line project about three feet over the edg . We saw the two head at the window : carat below , gomez abov ; but they had both been struck silent by what they saw . and yet they could not withdraw their head . the sight seem to have paralys them . `` I had wonder how the train run at a great speed would take the pit into which I had guid it , and I wa much interest in watch it . one of my colleagu thought that it would actual jump it , and inde it wa not veri far from do so . fortun , howev , it fell short , and the buffer of the engin struck the other lip of the shaft with a tremend crash . the funnel flew off into the air . the tender , carriag , and van were all smash up into one jumbl , which , with the remain of the engin , choke for a minut or so the mouth of the pit . then someth gave way in the middl , and the whole mass of green iron , smoke coal , brass fit , wheel , wood-work , and cushion all crumbl togeth and crash down into the mine . We heard the rattl , rattl , rattl , as the debri struck against the wall , and then , quit a long time afterward , there came a deep roar as the remain of the train struck the bottom . the boiler may have burst , for a sharp crash came after the roar , and then a dens cloud of steam and smoke swirl up out of the black depth , fall in a spray as thick as rain all round us . then the vapour shred off into thin wisp , which float away in the summer sunshin , and all wa quiet again in the heartseas mine . `` and now , have carri out our plan so success , it onli remain to leav no trace behind us . our littl band of worker at the other end had alreadi rip up the rail and disconnect the side line , replac everyth as it had been befor . We were equal busi at the mine . the funnel and other fragment were thrown in , the shaft wa plank over as it use to be , and the line which led to it were torn up and taken away . then , without flurri , but without delay , we all made our way out of the countri , most of us to pari , my english colleagu to manchest , and mcpherson to southampton , whenc he emigr to america . let the english paper of that date tell how throughli we had done our work , and how complet we had thrown the cleverest of their detect off our track . `` you will rememb that gomez threw hi bag of paper out of the window , and I need not say that I secur that bag and brought them to my employ . It may interest my employ now , howev , to learn that out of that bag I took one or two littl paper as a souvenir of the occas . I have no wish to publish these paper ; but , still , it is everi man for himself in thi world , and what els can I do if my friend will not come to my aid when I want them ? messieur , you may believ that herbert de lernac is quit as formid when he is against you as when he is with you , and that he is not a man to go to the guillotin until he ha seen that everi one of you is en rout for new caledonia . for your own sake , if not for mine , make hast , monsieur de -- -- , and gener -- -- , and baron -- -- ( you can fill up the blank for yourselv as you read thi ) . I promis you that in the next edit there will be no blank to fill . `` p.s. -- As I look over my statement there is onli one omiss which I can see . It concern the unfortun man mcpherson , who wa foolish enough to write to hi wife and to make an appoint with her in new york . It can be imagin that when interest like our were at stake , we could not leav them to the chanc of whether a man in that class of life would or would not give away hi secret to a woman . have onc broken hi oath by write to hi wife , we could not trust him ani more . We took step therefor to insur that he should not see hi wife . I have sometim thought that it would be a kind to write to her and to assur her that there is no impedi to her marri again . '' the beetle-hunt A curiou experi ? said the doctor . ye , my friend , I have had one veri curiou experi . I never expect to have anoth , for it is against all doctrin of chanc that two such event would befal ani one man in a singl lifetim . you may believ me or not , but the thing happen exactli as I tell it . I had just becom a medic man , but I had not start in practic , and I live in room in gower street . the street ha been renumb sinc then , but it wa in the onli hous which ha a bow-window , upon the left-hand side as you go down from the metropolitan station . A widow name murchison kept the hous at that time , and she had three medic student and one engin as lodger . I occupi the top room , which wa the cheapest , but cheap as it wa it wa more than I could afford . My small resourc were dwindl away , and everi week it becam more necessari that I should find someth to do . yet I wa veri unwil to go into gener practic , for my tast were all in the direct of scienc , and especi of zoolog , toward which I had alway a strong lean . I had almost given the fight up and resign myself to be a medic drudg for life , when the turning-point of my struggl came in a veri extraordinari way . one morn I had pick up the standard and wa glanc over it content . there wa a complet absenc of news , and I wa about to toss the paper down again , when my eye were caught by an advertis at the head of the person column . It wa word in thi way : `` want for one or more day the servic of a medic man . It is essenti that he should be a man of strong physiqu , of steadi nerv , and of a resolut natur . must be an entomologist -- coleopterist prefer . appli , in person , at 77b , brook street . applic must be made befor twelv o'clock today . '' now , I have alreadi said that I wa devot to zoolog . Of all branch of zoolog , the studi of insect wa the most attract to me , and of all insect beetl were the speci with which I wa most familiar . butterfli collector are numer , but beetl are far more vari , and more access in these island than are butterfli . It wa thi fact which had attract my attent to them , and I had myself made a collect which number some hundr varieti . As to the other requisit of the advertis , I knew that my nerv could be depend upon , and I had won the weight-throw competit at the inter-hospit sport . clearli , I wa the veri man for the vacanc . within five minut of my have read the advertis I wa in a cab and on my wa to brook street . As I drove , I kept turn the matter over in my head and tri to make a guess as to what sort of employ it could be which need such curiou qualif . A strong physiqu , a resolut natur , a medic train , and a knowledg of beetl -- what connect could there be between these variou requisit ? and then there wa the dishearten fact that the situat wa not a perman one , but termin from day to day , accord to the term of the advertis . the more I ponder over it the more unintellig did it becom ; but at the end of my medit I alway came back to the ground fact that , come what might , I had noth to lose , that I wa complet at the end of my resourc , and that I wa readi for ani adventur , howev desper , which would put a few honest sovereign into my pocket . the man fear to fail who ha to pay for hi failur , but there wa no penalti which fortun could exact from me . I wa like the gambler with empti pocket , who is still allow to tri hi luck with the other . No . 77b , brook street , wa one of those dingi and yet impos hous , dun-colour and flat-fac , with the intens respect and solid air which mark the georgian builder . As I alight from the cab , a young man came out of the door and walk swiftli down the street . In pass me , I notic that he cast an inquisit and somewhat malevol glanc at me , and I took the incid as a good omen , for hi appear wa that of a reject candid , and if he resent my applic it meant that the vacanc wa not yet fill up . full of hope , I ascend the broad step and rap with the heavi knocker . A footman in powder and liveri open the door . clearli I wa in touch with the peopl of wealth and fashion . `` ye , sir ? '' said the footman . `` I came in answer to -- -- '' `` quit so , sir , '' said the footman . `` lord linchmer will see you at onc in the librari . '' lord linchmer ! I had vagu heard the name , but could not for the instant recal anyth about him . follow the footman , I wa shown into a larg , book-lin room in which there wa seat behind a writing-desk a small man with a pleasant , clean-shaven , mobil face , and long hair shot with grey , brush back from hi forehead . He look me up and down with a veri shrewd , penetr glanc , hold the card which the footman had given him in hi right hand . then he smile pleasantli , and I felt that extern at ani rate I possess the qualif which he desir . `` you have come in answer to my advertis , Dr . hamilton ? '' he ask . `` ye , sir . '' `` Do you fulfil the condit which are there laid down ? '' `` I believ that I do . '' `` you are a power man , or so I should judg from your appear . `` I think that I am fairli strong . '' `` and resolut ? '' `` I believ so . '' `` have you ever known what it wa to be expos to immin danger ? '' `` No , I do n't know that I ever have . '' `` but you think you would be prompt and cool at such a time ? '' `` I hope so . '' `` well , I believ that you would . I have the more confid in you becaus you do not pretend to be certain as to what you would do in a posit that wa new to you . My impress is that , so far as person qualiti go , you are the veri man of whom I am in search . that be settl , we may pass on to the next point . '' `` which is ? '' `` To talk to me about beetl . '' I look across to see if he wa joke , but , on the contrari , he wa lean eagerli forward across hi desk , and there wa an express of someth like anxieti in hi eye . `` I am afraid that you do not know about beetl , '' he cri . `` On the contrari , sir , it is the one scientif subject about which I feel that I realli do know someth . '' `` I am overjoy to hear it . pleas talk to me about beetl . '' I talk . I do not profess to have said anyth origin upon the subject , but I gave a short sketch of the characterist of the beetl , and ran over the more common speci , with some allus to the specimen in my own littl collect and to the articl upon `` buri beetl '' which I had contribut to the journal of entomolog scienc . `` what ! not a collector ? '' cri lord linchmer . `` you do n't mean that you are yourself a collector ? '' hi eye danc with pleasur at the thought . `` you are certainli the veri man in london for my purpos . I thought that among five million of peopl there must be such a man , but the difficulti is to lay one 's hand upon him . I have been extraordinarili fortun in find you . '' He rang a gong upon the tabl , and the footman enter . `` ask ladi rossit to have the good to step thi way , '' said hi lordship , and a few moment later the ladi wa usher into the room . she wa a small , middle-ag woman , veri like lord linchmer in appear , with the same quick , alert featur and grey-black hair . the express of anxieti , howev , which I had observ upon hi face wa veri much more mark upon her . some great grief seem to have cast it shadow over her featur . As lord linchmer present me she turn her face full upon me , and I wa shock to observ a half-heal scar extend for two inch over her right eyebrow . It wa partli conceal by plaster , but none the less I could see that it had been a seriou wound and not long inflict . `` dr. hamilton is the veri man for our purpos , evelyn , '' said lord linchmer . `` He is actual a collector of beetl , and he ha written articl upon the subject . '' `` realli ! '' said ladi rossit . `` then you must have heard of my husband . everyon who know anyth about beetl must have heard of sir thoma rossit . '' for the first time a thin littl ray of light began to break into the obscur busi . here , at last , wa a connect between these peopl and beetl . sir thoma rossit -- he wa the greatest author upon the subject in the world . He had made it hi lifelong studi , and had written a most exhaust work upon it . I hasten to assur her that I had read and appreci it . `` have you met my husband ? '' she ask . `` No , I have not . '' `` but you shall , '' said lord linchmer , with decis . the ladi wa stand besid the desk , and she put her hand upon hi shoulder . It wa obviou to me as I saw their face togeth that they were brother and sister . `` are you realli prepar for thi , charl ? It is nobl of you , but you fill me with fear . '' her voic quaver with apprehens , and he appear to me to be equal move , though he wa make strong effort to conceal hi agit . `` ye , ye , dear ; it is all settl , it is all decid ; in fact , there is no other possibl way , that I can see . '' `` there is one obviou way . '' `` No , no , evelyn , I shall never abandon you -- never . It will come right -- depend upon it ; it will come right , and sure it look like the interfer of provid that so perfect an instrument should be put into our hand . '' My posit wa embarrass , for I felt that for the instant they had forgotten my presenc . but lord linchmer came back suddenli to me and to my engag . `` the busi for which I want you , dr. hamilton , is that you should put yourself absolut at my dispos . I wish you to come for a short journey with me , to remain alway at my side , and to promis to do without question whatev I may ask you , howev unreason it may appear to you to be . '' `` that is a good deal to ask , '' said I . `` unfortun I can not put it more plainli , for I do not myself know what turn matter may take . you may be sure , howev , that you will not be ask to do anyth which your conscienc doe not approv ; and I promis you that , when all is over , you will be proud to have been concern in so good a work . '' `` If it end happili , '' said the ladi . `` exactli ; if it end happili , '' hi lordship repeat . `` and term ? '' I ask . `` twenti pound a day . '' I wa amaz at the sum , and must have show my surpris upon my featur . `` It is a rare combin of qualiti , as must have struck you when you first read the advertis , '' said lord linchmer ; `` such vari gift may well command a high return , and I do not conceal from you that your duti might be arduou or even danger . besid , it is possibl that one or two day may bring the matter to an end . '' `` pleas god ! '' sigh hi sister . `` So now , dr. hamilton , may I reli upon your aid ? '' `` most undoubtedli , '' said I . `` you have onli to tell me what my duti are . '' `` your first duti will be to return to your home . you will pack up whatev you may need for a short visit to the countri . We start togeth from paddington station at 3:40 thi afternoon . '' `` Do we go far ? '' `` As far as pangbourn . meet me at the bookstal at 3:30 . I shall have the ticket . goodby , dr. hamilton ! and , by the way , there are two thing which I should be veri glad if you would bring with you , in case you have them . one is your case for collect beetl , and the other is a stick , and the thicker and heavier the better . '' you may imagin that I had plenti to think of from the time that I left brook street until I set out to meet lord linchmer at paddington . the whole fantast busi kept arrang and rearrang itself in kaleidoscop form insid my brain , until I had thought out a dozen explan , each of them more grotesqu improb than the last . and yet I felt that the truth must be someth grotesqu improb also . At last I gave up all attempt at find a solut , and content myself with exactli carri out the instruct which I had receiv . with a hand valis , specimen-cas , and a load cane , I wa wait at the paddington bookstal when lord linchmer arriv . He wa an even smaller man than I had thought -- frail and peaki , with a manner which wa more nervou than it had been in the morn . He wore a long , thick travel ulster , and I observ that he carri a heavi blackthorn cudgel in hi hand . `` I have the ticket , '' said he , lead the way up the platform . `` thi is our train . I have engag a carriag , for I am particularli anxiou to impress one or two thing upon you while we travel down . '' and yet all that he had to impress upon me might have been said in a sentenc , for it wa that I wa to rememb that I wa there as a protect to himself , and that I wa not on ani consider to leav him for an instant . thi he repeat again and again as our journey drew to a close , with an insist which show that hi nerv were thoroughli shaken . `` ye , '' he said at last , in answer to my look rather than to my word , `` I AM nervou , dr. hamilton . I have alway been a timid man , and my timid depend upon my frail physic health . but my soul is firm , and I can bring myself up to face a danger which a less-nerv man might shrink from . what I am do now is done from no compuls , but entir from a sens of duti , and yet it is , beyond doubt , a desper risk . If thing should go wrong , I will have some claim to the titl of martyr . '' thi etern read of riddl wa too much for me . I felt that I must put a term to it . `` I think it would veri much better , sir , if you were to trust me entir , '' said I . `` It is imposs for me to act effect , when I do not know what are the object which we have in view , or even where we are go . '' `` Oh , as to where we are go , there need be no mysteri about that , '' said he ; `` we are go to delamer court , the resid of sir thoma rossit , with whose work you are so convers . As to the exact object of our visit , I do not know that at thi stage of the proceed anyth would be gain , dr. hamilton , by take you into my complet confid . I may tell you that we are act -- I say 'we , ' becaus my sister , ladi rossit , take the same view as myself -- with the one object of prevent anyth in the natur of a famili scandal . that be so , you can understand that I am loath to give ani explan which are not absolut necessari . It would be a differ matter , dr. hamilton , if I were ask your advic . As matter stand , it is onli your activ help which I need , and I will indic to you from time to time how you can best give it . '' there wa noth more to be said , and a poor man can put up with a good deal for twenti pound a day , but I felt none the less that lord linchmer wa act rather scurvili toward me . He wish to convert me into a passiv tool , like the blackthorn in hi hand . with hi sensit disposit I could imagin , howev , that scandal would be abhorr to him , and I realiz that he would not take me into hi confid until no other cours wa open to him . I must trust to my own eye and ear to solv the mysteri , but I had everi confid that I should not trust to them in vain . delamer court lie a good five mile from pangbourn station , and we drove for that distanc in an open fli . lord linchmer sat in deep thought dure the time , and he never open hi mouth until we were close to our destin . when he did speak it wa to give me a piec of inform which surpris me . `` perhap you are not awar , '' said he , `` that I am a medic man like yourself ? '' `` No , sir , I did not know it . '' `` ye , I qualifi in my younger day , when there were sever live between me and the peerag . I have not had occas to practis , but I have found it a use educ , all the same . I never regret the year which I devot to medic studi . these are the gate of delamer court . '' We had come to two high pillar crown with herald monster which flank the open of a wind avenu . over the laurel bush and rhododendron , I could see a long , many-g mansion , girdl with ivi , and tone to the warm , cheeri , mellow glow of old brick-work . My eye were still fix in admir upon thi delight hous when my companion pluck nervous at my sleev . `` here 's sir thoma , '' he whisper . `` pleas talk beetl all you can . '' A tall , thin figur , curious angular and boni , had emerg through a gap in the hedg of laurel . In hi hand he held a spud , and he wore gauntlet garden 's glove . A broad-brim , grey hat cast hi face into shadow , but it struck me as exceedingli auster , with an ill-nourish beard and harsh , irregular featur . the fli pull up and lord linchmer sprang out . `` My dear thoma , how are you ? '' said he , heartili . but the hearti wa by no mean reciproc . the owner of the ground glare at me over hi brother-in-law 's shoulder , and I caught broken scrap of sentenc -- '' well-known wish ... hatr of stranger ... unjustifi intrus ... perfectli inexcus . '' then there wa a mutter explan , and the two of them came over togeth to the side of the fli . `` let me present you to sir thoma rossit , dr. hamilton , '' said lord linchmer . `` you will find that you have a strong commun of tast . '' I bow . sir thoma stood veri stiffli , look at me sever from under the broad brim of hi hat . `` lord linchmer tell me that you know someth about beetl , '' said he . `` what do you know about beetl ? '' `` I know what I have learn from your work upon the coleoptera , sir thoma , '' I answer . `` give me the name of the better-known speci of the british scarabaei , '' said he . I had not expect an examin , but fortun I wa readi for one . My answer seem to pleas him , for hi stern featur relax . `` you appear to have read my book with some profit , sir , '' said he . `` It is a rare thing for me to meet anyon who take an intellig interest in such matter . peopl can find time for such trivial as sport or societi , and yet the beetl are overlook . I can assur you that the greater part of the idiot in thi part of the countri are unawar that I have ever written a book at all -- I , the first man who ever describ the true function of the elytra . I am glad to see you , sir , and I have no doubt that I can show you some specimen which will interest you . '' He step into the fli and drove up with us to the hous , expound to me as we went some recent research which he had made into the anatomi of the lady-bird . I have said that sir thoma rossit wore a larg hat drawn down over hi brow . As he enter the hall he uncov himself , and I wa at onc awar of a singular characterist which the hat had conceal . hi forehead , which wa natur high , and higher still on account of reced hair , wa in a continu state of movement . some nervou weak kept the muscl in a constant spasm , which sometim produc a mere twitch and sometim a curiou rotari movement unlik anyth which I had ever seen befor . It wa strikingli visibl as he turn toward us after enter the studi , and seem the more singular from the contrast with the hard , steadi , grey eye which look out from underneath those palpit brow . `` I am sorri , '' said he , `` that ladi rossit is not here to help me to welcom you . By the way , charl , did evelyn say anyth about the date of her return ? '' `` she wish to stay in town for a few more day , '' said lord linchmer . `` you know how ladi ' social duti accumul if they have been for some time in the countri . My sister ha mani old friend in london at present . '' `` well , she is her own mistress , and I should not wish to alter her plan , but I shall be glad when I see her again . It is veri lone here without her compani . '' `` I wa afraid that you might find it so , and that wa partli whi I ran down . My young friend , dr. hamilton , is so much interest in the subject which you have made your own , that I thought you would not mind hi accompani me . '' `` I lead a retir life , dr. hamilton , and my avers to stranger grow upon me , '' said our host . `` I have sometim thought that my nerv are not so good as they were . My travel in search of beetl in my younger day took me into mani malari and unhealthi place . but a brother coleopterist like yourself is alway a welcom guest , and I shall be delight if you will look over my collect , which I think that I may without exagger describ as the best in europ . '' and so no doubt it wa . He had a huge , oaken cabinet arrang in shallow drawer , and here , neatli ticket and classifi , were beetl from everi corner of the earth , black , brown , blue , green , and mottl . everi now and then as he swept hi hand over the line and line of impal insect he would catch up some rare specimen , and , handl it with as much delicaci and rever as if it were a preciou relic , he would hold forth upon it peculiar and the circumst under which it came into hi possess . It wa evid an unusu thing for him to meet with a sympathet listen , and he talk and talk until the spring even had deepen into night , and the gong announc that it wa time to dress for dinner . all the time lord linchmer said noth , but he stood at hi brother-in-law 's elbow , and I caught him continu shoot curiou littl , question glanc into hi face . and hi own featur express some strong emot , apprehens , sympathi , expect : I seem to read them all . I wa sure that lord linchmer wa fear someth and await someth , but what that someth might be I could not imagin . the even pass quietli but pleasantli , and I should have been entir at my eas if it had not been for that continu sens of tension upon the part of lord linchmer . As to our host , I found that he improv upon acquaint . He spoke constantli with affect of hi absent wife , and also of hi littl son , who had recent been sent to school . the hous , he said , wa not the same without them . If it were not for hi scientif studi , he did not know how he could get through the day . after dinner we smoke for some time in the billiard-room , and final went earli to bed . and then it wa that , for the first time , the suspicion that lord linchmer wa a lunat cross my mind . He follow me into my bedroom , when our host had retir . `` doctor , '' said he , speak in a low , hurri voic , `` you must come with me . you must spend the night in my bedroom . '' `` what do you mean ? '' `` I prefer not to explain . but thi is part of your duti . My room is close by , and you can return to your own befor the servant call you in the morn . '' `` but whi ? '' I ask . `` becaus I am nervou of be alon , '' said he . `` that 's the reason , sinc you must have a reason . '' It seem rank lunaci , but the argument of those twenti pound would overcom mani object . I follow him to hi room . `` well , '' said I , `` there 's onli room for one in that bed . '' `` onli one shall occupi it , '' said he . `` and the other ? '' `` must remain on watch . '' `` whi ? '' said I . `` one would think you expect to be attack . '' `` perhap I do . '' `` In that case , whi not lock your door ? '' `` perhap I want to be attack . '' It look more and more like lunaci . howev , there wa noth for it but to submit . I shrug my shoulder and sat down in the arm-chair besid the empti fireplac . `` I am to remain on watch , then ? '' said I , ruefulli . `` We will divid the night . If you will watch until two , I will watch the remaind . '' `` veri good . '' `` call me at two o'clock , then . '' `` I will do so . '' `` keep your ear open , and if you hear ani sound wake me instantli -- instantli , you hear ? '' `` you can reli upon it . '' I tri to look as solemn as he did . `` and for god 's sake do n't go to sleep , '' said he , and so , take off onli hi coat , he threw the coverlet over him and settl down for the night . It wa a melancholi vigil , and made more so by my own sens of it folli . suppos that by ani chanc lord linchmer had caus to suspect that he wa subject to danger in the hous of sir thoma rossit , whi on earth could he not lock hi door and so protect himself ? hi own answer that he might wish to be attack wa absurd . whi should he possibl wish to be attack ? and who would wish to attack him ? clearli , lord linchmer wa suffer from some singular delus , and the result wa that on an imbecil pretext I wa to be depriv of my night 's rest . still , howev absurd , I wa determin to carri out hi injunct to the letter as long as I wa in hi employ . I sat , therefor , besid the empti fireplac , and listen to a sonor chime clock somewher down the passag which gurgl and struck everi quarter of an hour . It wa an endless vigil . save for that singl clock , an absolut silenc reign throughout the great hous . A small lamp stood on the tabl at my elbow , throw a circl of light round my chair , but leav the corner of the room drape in shadow . On the bed lord linchmer wa breath peac . I envi him hi quiet sleep , and again and again my own eyelid droop , but everi time my sens of duti came to my help , and I sat up , rub my eye and pinch myself with a determin to see my irrat watch to an end . and I did so . from down the passag came the chime of two o'clock , and I laid my hand upon the shoulder of the sleeper . instantli he wa sit up , with an express of the keenest interest upon hi face . `` you have heard someth ? '' `` No , sir . It is two o'clock . '' `` veri good . I will watch . you can go to sleep . '' I lay down under the coverlet as he had done and wa soon unconsci . My last recollect wa of that circl of lamplight , and of the small , hunched-up figur and strain , anxiou face of lord linchmer in the centr of it . how long I slept I do not know ; but I wa suddenli arous by a sharp tug at my sleev . the room wa in dark , but a hot smell of oil told me that the lamp had onli that instant been extinguish . `` quick ! quick ! '' said lord linchmer 's voic in my ear . I sprang out of bed , he still drag at my arm . `` over here ! '' he whisper , and pull me into a corner of the room . `` hush ! listen ! '' In the silenc of the night I could distinctli hear that someon wa come down the corridor . It wa a stealthi step , faint and intermitt , as of a man who paus cautious after everi stride . sometim for half a minut there wa no sound , and then came the shuffl and creak which told of a fresh advanc . My companion wa trembl with excit . hi hand , which still held my sleev , twitch like a branch in the wind . `` what is it ? '' I whisper . `` It 's he ! '' `` sir thoma ? '' `` ye . '' `` what doe he want ? '' `` hush ! Do noth until I tell you . '' I wa consciou now that someon wa tri the door . there wa the faintest littl rattl from the handl , and then I dimli saw a thin slit of subdu light . there wa a lamp burn somewher far down the passag , and it just suffic to make the outsid visibl from the dark of our room . the greyish slit grew broader and broader , veri gradual , veri gentli , and then outlin against it I saw the dark figur of a man . He wa squat and crouch , with the silhouett of a bulki and misshapen dwarf . slowli the door swung open with thi omin shape frame in the centr of it . and then , in an instant , the crouch figur shot up , there wa a tiger spring across the room and thud , thud , thud , came three tremend blow from some heavi object upon the bed . I wa so paralys with amaz that I stood motionless and stare until I wa arous by a yell for help from my companion . the open door shed enough light for me to see the outlin of thing , and there wa littl lord linchmer with hi arm round the neck of hi brother-in-law , hold brave on to him like a game bull-terri with it teeth into a gaunt deerhound . the tall , boni man dash himself about , writh round and round to get a grip upon hi assail ; but the other , clutch on from behind , still kept hi hold , though hi shrill , frighten cri show how unequ he felt the contest to be . I sprang to the rescu , and the two of us manag to throw sir thoma to the ground , though he made hi teeth meet in my shoulder . with all my youth and weight and strength , it wa a desper struggl befor we could master hi frenzi struggl ; but at last we secur hi arm with the waist-cord of the dressing-gown which he wa wear . I wa hold hi leg while lord linchmer wa endeavour to relight the lamp , when there came the patter of mani feet in the passag , and the butler and two footmen , who had been alarm by the cri , rush into the room . with their aid we had no further difficulti in secur our prison , who lay foam and glare upon the ground . one glanc at hi face wa enough to prove that he wa a danger maniac , while the short , heavi hammer which lay besid the bed show how murder had been hi intent . `` Do not use ani violenc ! '' said lord linchmer , as we rais the struggl man to hi feet . `` He will have a period of stupor after thi excit . I believ that it is come on alreadi . '' As he spoke the convuls becam less violent , and the madman 's head fell forward upon hi breast , as if he were overcom by sleep . We led him down the passag and stretch him upon hi own bed , where he lay unconsci , breath heavili . `` two of you will watch him , '' said lord linchmer . `` and now , dr. hamilton , if you will return with me to my room , I will give you the explan which my horror of scandal ha perhap caus me to delay too long . come what may , you will never have caus to regret your share in thi night 's work . `` the case may be made clear in a veri few word , '' he continu , when we were alon . `` My poor brother-in-law is one of the best fellow upon earth , a love husband and an estim father , but he come from a stock which is deepli taint with insan . He ha more than onc had homicid outbreak , which are the more pain becaus hi inclin is alway to attack the veri person to whom he is most attach . hi son wa sent away to school to avoid thi danger , and then came an attempt upon my sister , hi wife , from which she escap with injuri that you may have observ when you met her in london . you understand that he know noth of the matter when he is in hi sound sens , and would ridicul the suggest that he could under ani circumst injur those whom he love so dearli . It is often , as you know , a characterist of such maladi that it is absolut imposs to convinc the man who suffer from them of their exist . `` our great object wa , of cours , to get him under restraint befor he could stain hi hand with blood , but the matter wa full of difficulti . He is a reclus in hi habit , and would not see ani medic man . besid , it wa necessari for our purpos that the medic man should convinc himself of hi insan ; and he is sane as you or I , save on these veri rare occas . but , fortun , befor he ha these attack he alway show certain premonitori symptom , which are providenti danger-sign , warn us to be upon our guard . the chief of these is that nervou contort of the forehead which you must have observ . thi is a phenomenon which alway appear from three to four day befor hi attack of frenzi . the moment it show itself hi wife came into town on some pretext , and took refug in my hous in brook street . `` It remain for me to convinc a medic man of sir thoma 's insan , without which it wa imposs to put him where he could do no harm . the first problem wa how to get a medic man into hi hous . I bethought me of hi interest in beetl , and hi love for anyon who share hi tast . I advertis , therefor , and wa fortun enough to find in you the veri man I want . A stout companion wa necessari , for I knew that the lunaci could onli be prove by a murder assault , and I had everi reason to believ that that assault would be made upon myself , sinc he had the warmest regard for me in hi moment of saniti . I think your intellig will suppli all the rest . I did not know that the attack would come by night , but I thought it veri probabl , for the crise of such case usual do occur in the earli hour of the morn . I am a veri nervou man myself , but I saw no other way in which I could remov thi terribl danger from my sister 's life . I need not ask you whether you are will to sign the lunaci paper . '' `` undoubtedli . but two signatur are necessari . '' `` you forget that I am myself a holder of a medic degre . I have the paper on a side-t here , so if you will be good enough to sign them now , we can have the patient remov in the morn . '' So that wa my visit to sir thoma rossit , the famou beetle-hunt , and that wa also my first step upon the ladder of success , for ladi rossit and lord linchmer have prove to be staunch friend , and they have never forgotten my associ with them in the time of their need . sir thoma is out and said to be cure , but I still think that if I spent anoth night at delamer court , I should be inclin to lock my door upon the insid . the man with the watch there are mani who will still bear in mind the singular circumst which , under the head of the rugbi mysteri , fill mani column of the daili press in the spring of the year 1892 . come as it did at a period of except dull , it attract perhap rather more attent than it deserv , but it offer to the public that mixtur of the whimsic and the tragic which is most stimul to the popular imagin . interest droop , howev , when , after week of fruitless investig , it wa found that no final explan of the fact wa forthcom , and the tragedi seem from that time to the present to have final taken it place in the dark catalogu of inexplic and unexpi crime . A recent commun ( the authent of which appear to be abov question ) ha , howev , thrown some new and clear light upon the matter . befor lay it befor the public it would be as well , perhap , that I should refresh their memori as to the singular fact upon which thi commentari is found . these fact were briefli as follow : At five o'clock on the even of the 18th of march in the year alreadi mention a train left euston station for manchest . It wa a raini , squalli day , which grew wilder as it progress , so it wa by no mean the weather in which anyon would travel who wa not driven to do so by necess . the train , howev , is a favourit one among manchest busi men who are return from town , for it doe the journey in four hour and twenti minut , with onli three stoppag upon the way . In spite of the inclement even it wa , therefor , fairli well fill upon the occas of which I speak . the guard of the train wa a tri servant of the compani -- a man who had work for twenty-two year without a blemish or complaint . hi name wa john palmer . the station clock wa upon the stroke of five , and the guard wa about to give the customari signal to the engine-driv when he observ two belat passeng hurri down the platform . the one wa an except tall man , dress in a long black overcoat with astrakhan collar and cuff . I have alreadi said that the even wa an inclement one , and the tall travel had the high , warm collar turn up to protect hi throat against the bitter march wind . He appear , as far as the guard could judg by so hurri an inspect , to be a man between fifti and sixti year of age , who had retain a good deal of the vigour and activ of hi youth . In one hand he carri a brown leather gladston bag . hi companion wa a ladi , tall and erect , walk with a vigor step which outpac the gentleman besid her . she wore a long , fawn-colour dust-cloak , a black , close-fit toqu , and a dark veil which conceal the greater part of her face . the two might veri well have pass as father and daughter . they walk swiftli down the line of carriag , glanc in at the window , until the guard , john palmer , overtook them . `` now then , sir , look sharp , the train is go , '' said he . `` first-class , '' the man answer . the guard turn the handl of the nearest door . In the carriag which he had open , there sat a small man with a cigar in hi mouth . hi appear seem to have impress itself upon the guard 's memori , for he wa prepar , afterward , to describ or to identifi him . He wa a man of thirty-four or thirty-f year of age , dress in some grey materi , sharp-nos , alert , with a ruddi , weather-beaten face , and a small , close crop , black beard . He glanc up as the door wa open . the tall man paus with hi foot upon the step . `` thi is a smoke compart . the ladi dislik smoke , '' said he , look round at the guard . `` all right ! here you are , sir ! '' said john palmer . He slam the door of the smoke carriag , open that of the next one , which wa empti , and thrust the two travel in . At the same moment he sound hi whistl and the wheel of the train began to move . the man with the cigar wa at the window of hi carriag , and said someth to the guard as he roll past him , but the word were lost in the bustl of the departur . palmer step into the guard 's van , as it came up to him , and thought no more of the incid . twelv minut after it departur the train reach willesden junction , where it stop for a veri short interv . An examin of the ticket ha made it certain that no one either join or left it at thi time , and no passeng wa seen to alight upon the platform . At 5:14 the journey to manchest wa resum , and rugbi wa reach at 6:50 , the express be five minut late . At rugbi the attent of the station offici wa drawn to the fact that the door of one of the first-class carriag wa open . An examin of that compart , and of it neighbour , disclos a remark state of affair . the smoke carriag in which the short , red-fac man with the black beard had been seen wa now empti . save for a half-smok cigar , there wa no trace whatev of it recent occup . the door of thi carriag wa fasten . In the next compart , to which attent had been origin drawn , there wa no sign either of the gentleman with the astrakhan collar or of the young ladi who accompani him . all three passeng had disappear . On the other hand , there wa found upon the floor of thi carriag -- the one in which the tall travel and the ladi had been -- a young man fashion dress and of eleg appear . He lay with hi knee drawn up , and hi head rest against the farther door , an elbow upon either seat . A bullet had penetr hi heart and hi death must have been instantan . No one had seen such a man enter the train , and no railway ticket wa found in hi pocket , neither were there ani mark upon hi linen , nor paper nor person properti which might help to identifi him . who he wa , whenc he had come , and how he had met hi end were each as great a mysteri as what had occur to the three peopl who had start an hour and a half befor from willesden in those two compart . I have said that there wa no person properti which might help to identifi him , but it is true that there wa one peculiar about thi unknown young man which wa much comment upon at the time . In hi pocket were found no fewer than six valuabl gold watch , three in the variou pocket of hi waist-coat , one in hi ticket-pocket , one in hi breast-pocket , and one small one set in a leather strap and fasten round hi left wrist . the obviou explan that the man wa a pickpocket , and that thi wa hi plunder , wa discount by the fact that all six were of american make and of a type which is rare in england . three of them bore the mark of the rochest watchmak compani ; one wa by mason , of elmira ; one wa unmark ; and the small one , which wa highli jewel and ornament , wa from tiffani , of new york . the other content of hi pocket consist of an ivori knife with a corkscrew by rodger , of sheffield ; a small , circular mirror , one inch in diamet ; a readmiss slip to the lyceum theatr ; a silver box full of vesta match , and a brown leather cigar-cas contain two cheroot -- also two pound fourteen shill in money . It wa clear , then , that whatev motiv may have led to hi death , robberi wa not among them . As alreadi mention , there were no mark upon the man 's linen , which appear to be new , and no tailor 's name upon hi coat . In appear he wa young , short , smooth-cheek , and delic featur . one of hi front teeth wa conspicu stop with gold . On the discoveri of the tragedi an examin wa instantli made of the ticket of all passeng , and the number of the passeng themselv wa count . It wa found that onli three ticket were unaccount for , correspond to the three travel who were miss . the express wa then allow to proceed , but a new guard wa sent with it , and john palmer wa detain as a wit at rugbi . the carriag which includ the two compart in question wa uncoupl and side-track . then , on the arriv of inspector vane , of scotland yard , and of mr. henderson , a detect in the servic of the railway compani , an exhaust inquiri wa made into all the circumst . that crime had been commit wa certain . the bullet , which appear to have come from a small pistol or revolv , had been fire from some littl distanc , as there wa no scorch of the cloth . No weapon wa found in the compart ( which final dispos of the theori of suicid ) , nor wa there ani sign of the brown leather bag which the guard had seen in the hand of the tall gentleman . A ladi 's parasol wa found upon the rack , but no other trace wa to be seen of the travel in either of the section . apart from the crime , the question of how or whi three passeng ( one of them a ladi ) could get out of the train , and one other get in dure the unbroken run between willesden and rugbi , wa one which excit the utmost curios among the gener public , and gave rise to much specul in the london press . john palmer , the guard wa abl at the inquest to give some evid which threw a littl light upon the matter . there wa a spot between tring and cheddington , accord to hi statement , where , on account of some repair to the line , the train had for a few minut slow down to a pace not exceed eight or ten mile an hour . At that place it might be possibl for a man , or even for an except activ woman , to have left the train without seriou injuri . It wa true that a gang of platelay wa there , and that they had seen noth , but it wa their custom to stand in the middl between the metal , and the open carriag door wa upon the far side , so that it wa conceiv that someon might have alight unseen , as the dark would by that time be draw in . A steep embank would instantli screen anyon who sprang out from the observ of the navvi . the guard also depos that there wa a good deal of movement upon the platform at willesden junction , and that though it wa certain that no one had either join or left the train there , it wa still quit possibl that some of the passeng might have chang unseen from one compart to anoth . It wa by no mean uncommon for a gentleman to finish hi cigar in a smoke carriag and then to chang to a clearer atmospher . suppos that the man with the black beard had done so at willesden ( and the half-smok cigar upon the floor seem to favour the supposit ) , he would natur go into the nearest section , which would bring him into the compani of the two other actor in thi drama . thu the first stage of the affair might be surmis without ani great breach of probabl . but what the second stage had been , or how the final one had been arriv at , neither the guard nor the experienc detect offic could suggest . A care examin of the line between willesden and rugbi result in one discoveri which might or might not have a bear upon the tragedi . near tring , at the veri place where the train slow down , there wa found at the bottom of the embank a small pocket testament , veri shabbi and worn . It wa print by the bibl societi of london , and bore an inscript : `` from john to alic . jan. 13th , 1856 , '' upon the fly-leaf . underneath wa written : `` jame . juli 4th , 1859 , '' and beneath that again : `` edward . nov. 1st , 1869 , '' all the entri be in the same handwrit . thi wa the onli clue , if it could be call a clue , which the polic obtain , and the coron 's verdict of `` murder by a person or person unknown '' wa the unsatisfactori end of a singular case . advertis , reward , and inquiri prove equal fruitless , and noth could be found which wa solid enough to form the basi for a profit investig . It would be a mistak , howev , to suppos that no theori were form to account for the fact . On the contrari , the press , both in england and in america , teem with suggest and supposit , most of which were obvious absurd . the fact that the watch were of american make , and some peculiar in connect with the gold stop of hi front tooth , appear to indic that the deceas wa a citizen of the unit state , though hi linen , cloth and boot were undoubtedli of british manufactur . It wa surmis , by some , that he wa conceal under the seat , and that , be discov , he wa for some reason , possibl becaus he had overheard their guilti secret , put to death by hi fellow-passeng . when coupl with gener as to the feroc and cun of anarch and other secret societi , thi theori sound as plausibl as ani . the fact that he should be without a ticket would be consist with the idea of conceal , and it wa well known that women play a promin part in the nihilist propaganda . On the other hand , it wa clear , from the guard 's statement , that the man must have been hidden there befor the other arriv , and how unlik the coincid that conspir should stray exactli into the veri compart in which a spi wa alreadi conceal ! besid , thi explan ignor the man in the smoke carriag , and gave no reason at all for hi simultan disappear . the polic had littl difficulti in show that such a theori would not cover the fact , but they were unprepar in the absenc of evid to advanc ani altern explan . there wa a letter in the daili gazett , over the signatur of a well-known crimin investig , which gave rise to consider discuss at the time . He had form a hypothesi which had at least ingenu to recommend it , and I can not do better than append it in hi own word . `` whatev may be the truth , '' said he , `` it must depend upon some bizarr and rare combin of event , so we need have no hesit in postul such event in our explan . In the absenc of data we must abandon the analyt or scientif method of investig , and must approach it in the synthet fashion . In a word , instead of take known event and deduc from them what ha occur , we must build up a fanci explan if it will onli be consist with known event . We can then test thi explan by ani fresh fact which may aris . If they all fit into their place , the probabl is that we are upon the right track , and with each fresh fact thi probabl increas in a geometr progress until the evid becom final and convinc . `` now , there is one most remark and suggest fact which ha not met with the attent which it deserv . there is a local train run through harrow and king 's langley , which is time in such a way that the express must have overtaken it at or about the period when it eas down it speed to eight mile an hour on account of the repair of the line . the two train would at that time be travel in the same direct at a similar rate of speed and upon parallel line . It is within everi one 's experi how , under such circumst , the occup of each carriag can see veri plainli the passeng in the other carriag opposit to him . the lamp of the express had been lit at willesden , so that each compart wa brightli illumin , and most visibl to an observ from outsid . `` now , the sequenc of event as I reconstruct them would be after thi fashion . thi young man with the abnorm number of watch wa alon in the carriag of the slow train . hi ticket , with hi paper and glove and other thing , wa , we will suppos , on the seat besid him . He wa probabl an american , and also probabl a man of weak intellect . the excess wear of jewelleri is an earli symptom in some form of mania . `` As he sat watch the carriag of the express which were ( on account of the state of the line ) go at the same pace as himself , he suddenli saw some peopl in it whom he knew . We will suppos for the sake of our theori that these peopl were a woman whom he love and a man whom he hate -- and who in return hate him . the young man wa excit and impuls . He open the door of hi carriag , step from the footboard of the local train to the footboard of the express , open the other door , and made hi way into the presenc of these two peopl . the feat ( on the supposit that the train were go at the same pace ) is by no mean so peril as it might appear . `` have now got our young man , without hi ticket , into the carriag in which the elder man and the young woman are travel , it is not difficult to imagin that a violent scene ensu . It is possibl that the pair were also american , which is the more probabl as the man carri a weapon -- an unusu thing in england . If our supposit of incipi mania is correct , the young man is like to have assault the other . As the upshot of the quarrel the elder man shot the intrud , and then made hi escap from the carriag , take the young ladi with him . We will suppos that all thi happen veri rapidli , and that the train wa still go at so slow a pace that it wa not difficult for them to leav it . A woman might leav a train go at eight mile an hour . As a matter of fact , we know that thi woman did do so . `` and now we have to fit in the man in the smoke carriag . presum that we have , up to thi point , reconstruct the tragedi correctli , we shall find noth in thi other man to caus us to reconsid our conclus . accord to my theori , thi man saw the young fellow cross from one train to the other , saw him open the door , heard the pistol-shot , saw the two fugit spring out on to the line , realiz that murder had been done , and sprang out himself in pursuit . whi he ha never been heard of sinc -- whether he met hi own death in the pursuit , or whether , as is more like , he wa made to realiz that it wa not a case for hi interfer -- is a detail which we have at present no mean of explain . I acknowledg that there are some difficulti in the way . At first sight , it might seem improb that at such a moment a murder would burden himself in hi flight with a brown leather bag . My answer is that he wa well awar that if the bag were found hi ident would be establish . It wa absolut necessari for him to take it with him . My theori stand or fall upon one point , and I call upon the railway compani to make strict inquiri as to whether a ticket wa found unclaim in the local train through harrow and king 's langley upon the 18th of march . If such a ticket were found my case is prove . If not , my theori may still be the correct one , for it is conceiv either that he travel without a ticket or that hi ticket wa lost . '' To thi elabor and plausibl hypothesi the answer of the polic and of the compani wa , first , that no such ticket wa found ; secondli , that the slow train would never run parallel to the express ; and , thirdli , that the local train had been stationari in king 's langley station when the express , go at fifti mile an hour , had flash past it . So perish the onli satisfi explan , and five year have elaps without suppli a new one . now , at last , there come a statement which cover all the fact , and which must be regard as authent . It took the shape of a letter date from new york , and address to the same crimin investig whose theori I have quot . It is given here in extenso , with the except of the two open paragraph , which are person in their natur : `` you 'll excus me if I 'm not veri free with name . there 's less reason now than there wa five year ago when mother wa still live . but for all that , I had rather cover up our track all I can . but I owe you an explan , for if your idea of it wa wrong , it wa a mighti ingeni one all the same . I 'll have to go back a littl so as you may understand all about it . `` My peopl came from buck , england , and emigr to the state in the earli fifti . they settl in rochest , in the state of new york , where my father ran a larg dri good store . there were onli two son : myself , jame , and my brother , edward . I wa ten year older than my brother , and after my father die I sort of took the place of a father to him , as an elder brother would . He wa a bright , spirit boy , and just one of the most beauti creatur that ever live . but there wa alway a soft spot in him , and it wa like mould in chees , for it spread and spread , and noth that you could do would stop it . mother saw it just as clearli as I did , but she went on spoil him all the same , for he had such a way with him that you could refus him noth . I did all I could to hold him in , and he hate me for my pain . `` At last he fairli got hi head , and noth that we could do would stop him . He got off into new york , and went rapidli from bad to wors . At first he wa onli fast , and then he wa crimin ; and then , at the end of a year or two , he wa one of the most notori young crook in the citi . He had form a friendship with sparrow maccoy , who wa at the head of hi profess as a bunco-steer , green goodsman and gener rascal . they took to card-sharp , and frequent some of the best hotel in new york . My brother wa an excel actor ( he might have made an honest name for himself if he had chosen ) , and he would take the part of a young englishman of titl , of a simpl lad from the west , or of a colleg undergradu , whichev suit sparrow maccoy 's purpos . and then one day he dress himself as a girl , and he carri it off so well , and made himself such a valuabl decoy , that it wa their favourit game afterward . they had made it right with tammani and with the polic , so it seem as if noth could ever stop them , for those were in the day befor the lexow commiss , and if you onli had a pull , you could do pretti nearli everyth you want . `` and noth would have stop them if they had onli stuck to card and new york , but they must need come up rochest way , and forg a name upon a chequ . It wa my brother that did it , though everyon knew that it wa under the influenc of sparrow maccoy . I bought up that chequ , and a pretti sum it cost me . then I went to my brother , laid it befor him on the tabl , and swore to him that I would prosecut if he did not clear out of the countri . At first he simpli laugh . I could not prosecut , he said , without break our mother 's heart , and he knew that I would not do that . I made him understand , howev , that our mother 's heart wa be broken in ani case , and that I had set firm on the point that I would rather see him in rochest gaol than in a new york hotel . So at last he gave in , and he made me a solemn promis that he would see sparrow maccoy no more , that he would go to europ , and that he would turn hi hand to ani honest trade that I help him to get . I took him down right away to an old famili friend , joe willson , who is an export of american watch and clock , and I got him to give edward an agenc in london , with a small salari and a 15 per cent commiss on all busi . hi manner and appear were so good that he won the old man over at onc , and within a week he wa sent off to london with a case full of sampl . `` It seem to me that thi busi of the chequ had realli given my brother a fright , and that there wa some chanc of hi settl down into an honest line of life . My mother had spoken with him , and what she said had touch him , for she had alway been the best of mother to him and he had been the great sorrow of her life . but I knew that thi man sparrow maccoy had a great influenc over edward and my chanc of keep the lad straight lay in break the connect between them . I had a friend in the new york detect forc , and through him I kept a watch upon maccoy . when , within a fortnight of my brother 's sail , I heard that maccoy had taken a berth in the etruria , I wa as certain as if he had told me that he wa go over to england for the purpos of coax edward back again into the way that he had left . In an instant I had resolv to go also , and to pit my influenc against maccoy 's . I knew it wa a lose fight , but I thought , and my mother thought , that it wa my duti . We pass the last night togeth in prayer for my success , and she gave me her own testament that my father had given her on the day of their marriag in the old countri , so that I might alway wear it next my heart . `` I wa a fellow-travel , on the steamship , with sparrow maccoy , and at least I had the satisfact of spoil hi littl game for the voyag . the veri first night I went into the smoking-room , and found him at the head of a card-tabl , with a half a dozen young fellow who were carri their full purs and their empti skull over to europ . He wa settl down for hi harvest , and a rich one it would have been . but I soon chang all that . `` 'gentlemen , ' said I , 'are you awar whom you are play with ? ' `` 'what 's that to you ? you mind your own busi ! ' said he , with an oath . `` 'who is it , anyway ? ' ask one of the dude . `` 'he 's sparrow maccoy , the most notori card-sharp in the state . ' `` Up he jump with a bottl in hi hand , but he rememb that he wa under the flag of the effet old countri , where law and order run , and tammani ha no pull . gaol and the gallow wait for violenc and murder , and there 's no slip out by the back door on board an ocean liner . `` 'prove your word , you -- -- ! ' said he . `` ' I will ! ' said I . 'if you will turn up your right shirt-sleev to the shoulder , I will either prove my word or I will eat them . ' `` He turn white and said not a word . you see , I knew someth of hi way , and I wa awar of that part of the mechan which he and all such sharper use consist of an elast down the arm with a clip just abov the wrist . It is by mean of thi clip that they withdraw from their hand the card which they do not want , while they substitut other card from anoth hide place . I reckon on it be there , and it wa . He curs me , slunk out of the saloon , and wa hardli seen again dure the voyag . for onc , at ani rate , I got level with mister sparrow maccoy . `` but he soon had hi reveng upon me , for when it came to influenc my brother he outweigh me everi time . edward had kept himself straight in london for the first few week , and had done some busi with hi american watch , until thi villain came across hi path onc more . I did my best , but the best wa littl enough . the next thing I heard there had been a scandal at one of the northumberland avenu hotel : a travel had been fleec of a larg sum by two confeder card-sharp , and the matter wa in the hand of scotland yard . the first I learn of it wa in the even paper , and I wa at onc certain that my brother and maccoy were back at their old game . I hurri at onc to edward 's lodg . they told me that he and a tall gentleman ( whom I recogn as maccoy ) had gone off togeth , and that he had left the lodg and taken hi thing with him . the landladi had heard them give sever direct to the cabman , end with euston station , and she had accident overheard the tall gentleman say someth about manchest . she believ that that wa their destin . `` A glanc at the time-t show me that the most like train wa at five , though there wa anoth at 4:35 which they might have caught . I had onli time to get the later one , but found no sign of them either at the depot or in the train . they must have gone on by the earlier one , so I determin to follow them to manchest and search for them in the hotel there . one last appeal to my brother by all that he owe to my mother might even now be the salvat of him . My nerv were overstrung , and I lit a cigar to steadi them . At that moment , just as the train wa move off , the door of my compart wa flung open , and there were maccoy and my brother on the platform . `` they were both disguis , and with good reason , for they knew that the london polic were after them . maccoy had a great astrakhan collar drawn up , so that onli hi eye and nose were show . My brother wa dress like a woman , with a black veil half down hi face , but of cours it did not deceiv me for an instant , nor would it have done so even if I had not known that he had often use such a dress befor . I start up , and as I did so maccoy recogn me . He said someth , the conductor slam the door , and they were shown into the next compart . I tri to stop the train so as to follow them , but the wheel were alreadi move , and it wa too late . `` when we stop at willesden , I instantli chang my carriag . It appear that I wa not seen to do so , which is not surpris , as the station wa crowd with peopl . maccoy , of cours , wa expect me , and he had spent the time between euston and willesden in say all he could to harden my brother 's heart and set him against me . that is what I fanci , for I had never found him so imposs to soften or to move . I tri thi way and I tri that ; I pictur hi futur in an english gaol ; I describ the sorrow of hi mother when I came back with the news ; I said everyth to touch hi heart , but all to no purpos . He sat there with a fix sneer upon hi handsom face , while everi now and then sparrow maccoy would throw in a taunt at me , or some word of encourag to hold my brother to hi resolut . `` 'whi do n't you run a sunday-school ? ' he would say to me , and then , in the same breath : 'he think you have no will of your own . He think you are just the babi brother and that he can lead you where he like . He 's onli just find out that you are a man as well as he . ' `` It wa those word of hi which set me talk bitterli . We had left willesden , you understand , for all thi took some time . My temper got the better of me , and for the first time in my life I let my brother see the rough side of me . perhap it would have been better had I done so earlier and more often . `` ' A man ! ' said I . 'well , I 'm glad to have your friend 's assur of it , for no one would suspect it to see you like a boarding-school missi . I do n't suppos in all thi countri there is a more contemptible-look creatur than you are as you sit there with that dolli pinafor upon you . ' He colour up at that , for he wa a vain man , and he winc from ridicul . `` 'it 's onli a dust-cloak , ' said he , and he slip it off . 'one ha to throw the copper off one 's scent , and I had no other way to do it . ' He took hi toqu off with the veil attach , and he put both it and the cloak into hi brown bag . 'anyway , I do n't need to wear it until the conductor come round , ' said he . `` 'nor then , either , ' said I , and take the bag I slung it with all my forc out of the window . 'now , ' said I , 'you 'll never make a mari jane of yourself while I can help it . If noth but that disguis stand between you and a gaol , then to gaol you shall go . ' `` that wa the way to manag him . I felt my advantag at onc . hi suppl natur wa one which yield to rough far more readili than to entreati . He flush with shame , and hi eye fill with tear . but maccoy saw my advantag also , and wa determin that I should not pursu it . `` 'he 's my pard , and you shall not bulli him , ' he cri . `` 'he 's my brother , and you shall not ruin him , ' said I . ' I believ a spell of prison is the veri best way of keep you apart , and you shall have it , or it will be no fault of mine . ' `` 'oh , you would squeal , would you ? ' he cri , and in an instant he whip out hi revolv . I sprang for hi hand , but saw that I wa too late , and jump asid . At the same instant he fire , and the bullet which would have struck me pass through the heart of my unfortun brother . `` He drop without a groan upon the floor of the compart , and maccoy and I , equal horrifi , knelt at each side of him , tri to bring back some sign of life . maccoy still held the load revolv in hi hand , but hi anger against me and my resent toward him had both for the moment been swallow up in thi sudden tragedi . It wa he who first realiz the situat . the train wa for some reason go veri slowli at the moment , and he saw hi opportun for escap . In an instant he had the door open , but I wa as quick as he , and jump upon him the two of us fell off the footboard and roll in each other 's arm down a steep embank . At the bottom I struck my head against a stone , and I rememb noth more . when I came to myself I wa lie among some low bush , not far from the railroad track , and somebodi wa bath my head with a wet handkerchief . It wa sparrow maccoy . `` ' I guess I could n't leav you , ' said he . ' I did n't want to have the blood of two of you on my hand in one day . you love your brother , I 've no doubt ; but you did n't love him a cent more than I love him , though you 'll say that I took a queer way to show it . anyhow , it seem a mighti empti world now that he is gone , and I do n't care a continent whether you give me over to the hangman or not . ' `` He had turn hi ankl in the fall , and there we sat , he with hi useless foot , and I with my throb head , and we talk and talk until gradual my bitter began to soften and to turn into someth like sympathi . what wa the use of reveng hi death upon a man who wa as much stricken by that death as I wa ? and then , as my wit gradual return , I began to realiz also that I could do noth against maccoy which would not recoil upon my mother and myself . how could we convict him without a full account of my brother 's career be made public -- the veri thing which of all other we wish to avoid ? It wa realli as much our interest as hi to cover the matter up , and from be an aveng of crime I found myself chang to a conspir against justic . the place in which we found ourselv wa one of those pheasant preserv which are so common in the old countri , and as we grope our way through it I found myself consult the slayer of my brother as to how far it would be possibl to hush it up . `` I soon realiz from what he said that unless there were some paper of which we knew noth in my brother 's pocket , there wa realli no possibl mean by which the polic could identifi him or learn how he had got there . hi ticket wa in maccoy 's pocket , and so wa the ticket for some baggag which they had left at the depot . like most american , he had found it cheaper and easier to buy an outfit in london than to bring one from new york , so that all hi linen and cloth were new and unmark . the bag , contain the dust-cloak , which I had thrown out of the window , may have fallen among some brambl patch where it is still conceal , or may have been carri off by some tramp , or may have come into the possess of the polic , who kept the incid to themselv . anyhow , I have seen noth about it in the london paper . As to the watch , they were a select from those which had been intrust to him for busi purpos . It may have been for the same busi purpos that he wa take them to manchest , but -- well , it 's too late to enter into that . `` I do n't blame the polic for be at fault . I do n't see how it could have been otherwis . there wa just one littl clue that they might have follow up , but it wa a small one . I mean that small , circular mirror which wa found in my brother 's pocket . It is n't a veri common thing for a young man to carri about with him , is it ? but a gambler might have told you what such a mirror may mean to a card-sharp . If you sit back a littl from the tabl , and lay the mirror , face upward , upon your lap , you can see , as you deal , everi card that you give to your adversari . It is not hard to say whether you see a man or rais him when you know hi card as well as your own . It wa as much a part of a sharper 's outfit as the elast clip upon sparrow maccoy 's arm . take that , in connect with the recent fraud at the hotel , the polic might have got hold of one end of the string . `` I do n't think there is much more for me to explain . We got to a villag call amersham that night in the charact of two gentlemen upon a walk tour , and afterward we made our way quietli to london , whenc maccoy went on to cairo and I return to new york . My mother die six month afterward , and I am glad to say that to the day of her death she never knew what happen . she wa alway under the delus that edward wa earn an honest live in london , and I never had the heart to tell her the truth . He never wrote ; but , then , he never did write at ani time , so that made no differ . hi name wa the last upon her lip . `` there 's just one other thing that I have to ask you , sir , and I should take it as a kind return for all thi explan , if you could do it for me . you rememb that testament that wa pick up . I alway carri it in my insid pocket , and it must have come out in my fall . I valu it veri highli , for it wa the famili book with my birth and my brother 's mark by my father in the begin of it . I wish you would appli at the proper place and have it sent to me . It can be of no possibl valu to anyon els . If you address it to X , bassano 's librari , broadway , new york , it is sure to come to hand . '' the japan box It wa a curiou thing , said the privat tutor ; one of those grotesqu and whimsic incid which occur to one as one goe through life . I lost the best situat which I am ever like to have through it . but I am glad that I went to thorp place , for I gain -- well , as I tell you the stori you will learn what I gain . I do n't know whether you are familiar with that part of the midland which is drain by the avon . It is the most english part of england . shakespear , the flower of the whole race , wa born right in the middl of it . It is a land of roll pastur , rise in higher fold to the westward , until they swell into the malvern hill . there are no town , but numer villag , each with it grey norman church . you have left the brick of the southern and eastern counti behind you , and everyth is stone -- stone for the wall , and lichen slab of stone for the roof . It is all grim and solid and massiv , as befit the heart of a great nation . It wa in the middl of thi countri , not veri far from evesham , that sir john bollamor live in the old ancestr home of thorp place , and thither it wa that I came to teach hi two littl son . sir john wa a widow -- hi wife had die three year befor -- and he had been left with these two lad age eight and ten , and one dear littl girl of seven . miss witherton , who is now my wife , wa gover to thi littl girl . I wa tutor to the two boy . could there be a more obviou prelud to an engag ? she govern me now , and I tutor two littl boy of our own . but , there -- I have alreadi reveal what it wa which I gain in thorp place ! It wa a veri , veri old hous , incred old -- pre-norman , some of it -- and the bollamor claim to have live in that situat sinc long befor the conquest . It struck a chill to my heart when first I came there , those enorm thick grey wall , the rude crumbl stone , the smell as from a sick anim which exhal from the rot plaster of the age build . but the modern wing wa bright and the garden wa well kept . No hous could be dismal which had a pretti girl insid it and such a show of rose in front . apart from a veri complet staff of servant there were onli four of us in the household . these were miss witherton , who wa at that time four-and-twenti and as pretti -- well , as pretti as mrs. colmor is now -- myself , frank colmor , age thirti , mrs. steven , the housekeep , a dri , silent woman , and mr. richard , a tall military-look man , who act as steward to the bollamor estat . We four alway had our meal togeth , but sir john had hi usual alon in the librari . sometim he join us at dinner , but on the whole we were just as glad when he did not . for he wa a veri formid person . imagin a man six feet three inch in height , majest built , with a high-nos , aristocrat face , brindl hair , shaggi eyebrow , a small , point mephistophelian beard , and line upon hi brow and round hi eye as deep as if they had been carv with a penknif . He had grey eye , weari , hopeless-look eye , proud and yet pathet , eye which claim your piti and yet dare you to show it . hi back wa round with studi , but otherwis he wa as fine a look man of hi age -- five-and-fifti perhap -- as ani woman would wish to look upon . but hi presenc wa not a cheer one . He wa alway courteou , alway refin , but singularli silent and retir . I have never live so long with ani man and known so littl of him . If he were indoor he spent hi time either in hi own small studi in the eastern tower , or in the librari in the modern wing . So regular wa hi routin that one could alway say at ani hour exactli where he would be . twice in the day he would visit hi studi , onc after breakfast , and onc about ten at night . you might set your watch by the slam of the heavi door . for the rest of the day he would be in hi librari -- save that for an hour or two in the afternoon he would take a walk or a ride , which wa solitari like the rest of hi exist . He love hi children , and wa keenli interest in the progress of their studi , but they were a littl awe by the silent , shaggy-brow figur , and they avoid him as much as they could . inde , we all did that . It wa some time befor I came to know anyth about the circumst of sir john bollamor 's life , for mrs. steven , the housekeep , and mr. richard , the land-steward , were too loyal to talk easili of their employ 's affair . As to the gover , she knew no more than I did , and our common interest wa one of the caus which drew us togeth . At last , howev , an incid occur which led to a closer acquaint with mr. richard and a fuller knowledg of the life of the man whom I serv . the immedi caus of thi wa no less than the fall of master perci , the youngest of my pupil , into the mill-rac , with immin danger both to hi life and to mine , sinc I had to risk myself in order to save him . drip and exhaust -- for I wa far more spent than the child -- I wa make for my room when sir john , who had heard the hubbub , open the door of hi littl studi and ask me what wa the matter . I told him of the accid , but assur him that hi child wa in no danger , while he listen with a rug , immobil face , which express in it intens eye and tighten lip all the emot which he tri to conceal . `` one moment ! step in here ! let me have the detail ! '' said he , turn back through the open door . and so I found myself within that littl sanctum , insid which , as I afterward learn , no other foot had for three year been set save that of the old servant who clean it out . It wa a round room , conform to the shape of the tower in which it wa situat , with a low ceil , a singl narrow , ivy-wreath window , and the simplest of furnitur . An old carpet , a singl chair , a deal tabl , and a small shelf of book made up the whole content . On the tabl stood a full-length photograph of a woman -- I took no particular notic of the featur , but I rememb , that a certain graciou gentl wa the prevail impress . besid it were a larg black japan box and one or two bundl of letter or paper fasten togeth with elast band . our interview wa a short one , for sir john bollamor perceiv that I wa soak , and that I should chang without delay . the incid led , howev , to an instruct talk with richard , the agent , who had never penetr into the chamber which chanc had open to me . that veri afternoon he came to me , all curios , and walk up and down the garden path with me , while my two charg play tenni upon the lawn besid us . `` you hardli realiz the except which ha been made in your favour , '' said he . `` that room ha been kept such a mysteri , and sir john 's visit to it have been so regular and consist , that an almost superstiti feel ha arisen about it in the household . I assur you that if I were to repeat to you the tale which are fli about , tale of mysteri visitor there , and of voic overheard by the servant , you might suspect that sir john had relaps into hi old way . '' `` whi do you say relaps ? '' I ask . He look at me in surpris . `` Is it possibl , '' said he , `` that sir john bollamor 's previou histori is unknown to you ? '' `` absolut . '' `` you astound me . I thought that everi man in england knew someth of hi anteced . I should not mention the matter if it were not that you are now one of ourselv , and that the fact might come to your ear in some harsher form if I were silent upon them . I alway took it for grant that you knew that you were in the servic of 'devil ' bollamor . '' `` but whi 'devil ' ? '' I ask . `` Ah , you are young and the world move fast , but twenti year ago the name of 'devil ' bollamor wa one of the best known in london . He wa the leader of the fastest set , bruiser , driver , gambler , drunkard -- a surviv of the old type , and as bad as the worst of them . '' I stare at him in amaz . `` what ! '' I cri , `` that quiet , studiou , sad-fac man ? '' `` the greatest rip and debauche in england ! all between ourselv , colmor . but you understand now what I mean when I say that a woman 's voic in hi room might even now give rise to suspicion . '' `` but what can have chang him so ? '' `` littl beryl clare , when she took the risk of becom hi wife . that wa the turn point . He had got so far that hi own fast set had thrown him over . there is a world of differ , you know , between a man who drink and a drunkard . they all drink , but they taboo a drunkard . He had becom a slave to it -- hopeless and helpless . then she step in , saw the possibl of a fine man in the wreck , took her chanc in marri him though she might have had the pick of a dozen , and , by devot her life to it , brought him back to manhood and decenc . you have observ that no liquor is ever kept in the hous . there never ha been ani sinc her foot cross it threshold . A drop of it would be like blood to a tiger even now . '' `` then her influenc still hold him ? '' `` that is the wonder of it . when she die three year ago , we all expect and fear that he would fall back into hi old way . she fear it herself , and the thought gave a terror to death , for she wa like a guardian angel to that man , and live onli for the one purpos . By the way , did you see a black japan box in hi room ? '' `` ye . '' `` I fanci it contain her letter . If ever he ha occas to be away , if onli for a singl night , he invari take hi black japan box with him . well , well , colmor , perhap I have told you rather more than I should , but I shall expect you to reciproc if anyth of interest should come to your knowledg . '' I could see that the worthi man wa consum with curios and just a littl piqu that I , the newcom , should have been the first to penetr into the untrodden chamber . but the fact rais me in hi esteem , and from that time onward I found myself upon more confidenti term with him . and now the silent and majest figur of my employ becam an object of greater interest to me . I began to understand that strang human look in hi eye , those deep line upon hi care-worn face . He wa a man who wa fight a ceaseless battl , hold at arm 's length , from morn till night , a horribl adversari who wa forev tri to close with him -- an adversari which would destroy him bodi and soul could it but fix it claw onc more upon him . As I watch the grim , round-back figur pace the corridor or walk in the garden , thi immin danger seem to take bodili shape , and I could almost fanci that I saw thi most loathsom and danger of all the fiend crouch close in hi veri shadow , like a half-cow beast which slink besid it keeper , readi at ani unguard moment to spring at hi throat . and the dead woman , the woman who had spent her life in ward off thi danger , took shape also to my imagin , and I saw her as a shadowi but beauti presenc which interven for ever with arm uplift to screen the man whom she love . In some subtl way he divin the sympathi which I had for him , and he show in hi own silent fashion that he appreci it . He even invit me onc to share hi afternoon walk , and although no word pass between us on thi occas , it wa a mark of confid which he had never shown to anyon befor . He ask me also to index hi librari ( it wa one of the best privat librari in england ) , and I spent mani hour in the even in hi presenc , if not in hi societi , he read at hi desk and I sit in a recess by the window reduc to order the chao which exist among hi book . In spite of these close relat I wa never again ask to enter the chamber in the turret . and then came my revuls of feel . A singl incid chang all my sympathi to loath , and made me realiz that my employ still remain all that he had ever been , with the addit vice of hypocrisi . what happen wa as follow . one even miss witherton had gone down to broadway , the neighbour villag , to sing at a concert for some chariti , and I , accord to my promis , had walk over to escort her back . the drive sweep round under the eastern turret , and I observ as I pass that the light wa lit in the circular room . It wa a summer even , and the window , which wa a littl higher than our head , wa open . We were , as it happen , engross in our own convers at the moment and we had paus upon the lawn which skirt the old turret , when suddenli someth broke in upon our talk and turn our thought away from our own affair . It wa a voic -- the voic undoubtedli of a woman . It wa low -- so low that it wa onli in that still night air that we could have heard it , but , hush as it wa , there wa no mistak it feminin timbr . It spoke hurriedli , gaspingli for a few sentenc , and then wa silent -- a piteou , breathless , implor sort of voic . miss witherton and I stood for an instant stare at each other . then we walk quickli in the direct of the hall-door . `` It came through the window , '' I said . `` We must not play the part of eavesdropp , '' she answer . `` We must forget that we have ever heard it . '' there wa an absenc of surpris in her manner which suggest a new idea to me . `` you have heard it befor , '' I cri . `` I could not help it . My own room is higher up on the same turret . It ha happen frequent . '' `` who can the woman be ? '' `` I have no idea . I had rather not discuss it . '' her voic wa enough to show me what she thought . but grant that our employ led a doubl and dubiou life , who could she be , thi mysteri woman who kept him compani in the old tower ? I knew from my own inspect how bleak and bare a room it wa . she certainli did not live there . but in that case where did she come from ? It could not be anyon of the household . they were all under the vigil eye of mrs. steven . the visitor must come from without . but how ? and then suddenli I rememb how ancient thi build wa , and how probabl that some mediaev passag exist in it . there is hardli an old castl without one . the mysteri room wa the basement of the turret , so that if there were anyth of the sort it would open through the floor . there were numer cottag in the immedi vicin . the other end of the secret passag might lie among some tangl of brambl in the neighbour cops . I said noth to anyon , but I felt that the secret of my employ lay within my power . and the more convinc I wa of thi the more I marvel at the manner in which he conceal hi true natur . often as I watch hi auster figur , I ask myself if it were inde possibl that such a man should be live thi doubl life , and I tri to persuad myself that my suspicion might after all prove to be ill-found . but there wa the femal voic , there wa the secret nightli rendezv in the turret-chamb -- how could such fact admit of an innoc interpret . I conceiv a horror of the man . I wa fill with loath at hi deep , consist hypocrisi . onli onc dure all those month did I ever see him without that sad but impass mask which he usual present toward hi fellow-man . for an instant I caught a glimps of those volcan fire which he had damp down so long . the occas wa an unworthi one , for the object of hi wrath wa none other than the age charwoman whom I have alreadi mention as be the one person who wa allow within hi mysteri chamber . I wa pass the corridor which led to the turret -- for my own room lay in that direct -- when I heard a sudden , startl scream , and merg in it the huski , growl note of a man who is inarticul with passion . It wa the snarl of a furiou wild beast . then I heard hi voic thrill with anger . `` you would dare ! '' he cri . `` you would dare to disobey my direct ! '' An instant later the charwoman pass me , fli down the passag , white-fac and tremul , while the terribl voic thunder behind her . `` Go to mrs. steven for your money ! never set foot in thorp place again ! '' consum with curios , I could not help follow the woman , and found her round the corner lean against the wall and palpit like a frighten rabbit . `` what is the matter , mr . brown ? '' I ask . `` It 's master ! '' she gasp . `` Oh , 'ow ' e frighten me ! If you had seen 'i eye , mr. colmor , sir . I thought ' e would 'ave been the death of me . '' `` but what had you done ? '' `` done , sir ! noth . At least noth to make so much of . just laid my 'and on that black box of 'i -- 'ad n't even open it , when in ' e came and you 'eard the way ' e went on . I 've lost my place , and glad I am of it , for I would never trust myself within reach of 'im again . '' So it wa the japan box which wa the caus of thi outburst -- the box from which he would never permit himself to be separ . what wa the connect , or wa there ani connect between thi and the secret visit of the ladi whose voic I had overheard ? sir john bollamor 's wrath wa endur as well as fieri , for from that day mrs. brown , the charwoman , vanish from our ken , and thorp place knew her no more . and now I wish to tell you the singular chanc which solv all these strang question and put my employ 's secret in my possess . the stori may leav you with some linger doubt as to whether my curios did not get the better of my honour , and whether I did not condescend to play the spi . If you choos to think so I can not help it , but can onli assur you that , improb as it may appear , the matter came about exactli as I describ it . the first stage in thi denouement wa that the small room in the turret becam uninhabit . thi occur through the fall of the worm-eaten oaken beam which support the ceil . rotten with age , it snap in the middl one morn , and brought down a quantiti of plaster with it . fortun sir john wa not in the room at the time . hi preciou box wa rescu from amongst the debri and brought into the librari , where , henceforward , it wa lock within hi bureau . sir john took no step to repair the damag , and I never had an opportun of search for that secret passag , the exist of which I had surmis . As to the ladi , I had thought that thi would have brought her visit to an end , had I not one even heard mr. richard ask mrs. steven who the woman wa whom he had overheard talk to sir john in the librari . I could not catch her repli , but I saw from her manner that it wa not the first time that she had had to answer or avoid the same question . `` you 've heard the voic , colmor ? '' said the agent . I confess that I had . `` and what do you think of it ? '' I shrug my shoulder , and remark that it wa no busi of mine . `` come , come , you are just as curiou as ani of us . Is it a woman or not ? '' `` It is certainli a woman . '' `` which room did you hear it from ? '' `` from the turret-room , befor the ceil fell . '' `` but I heard it from the librari onli last night . I pass the door as I wa go to bed , and I heard someth wail and pray just as plainli as I hear you . It may be a woman -- -- '' `` whi , what els could it be ? '' He look at me hard . `` there are more thing in heaven and earth , '' said he . `` If it is a woman , how doe she get there ? '' `` I do n't know . '' `` No , nor I . but if it is the other thing -- but there , for a practic busi man at the end of the nineteenth centuri thi is rather a ridicul line of convers . '' He turn away , but I saw that he felt even more than he had said . To all the old ghost stori of thorp place a new one wa be ad befor our veri eye . It may by thi time have taken it perman place , for though an explan came to me , it never reach the other . and my explan came in thi way . I had suffer a sleepless night from neuralgia , and about midday I had taken a heavi dose of chlorodyn to allevi the pain . At that time I wa finish the index of sir john bollamor 's librari , and it wa my custom to work there from five till seven . On thi particular day I struggl against the doubl effect of my bad night and the narcot . I have alreadi mention that there wa a recess in the librari , and in thi it wa my habit to work . I settl down steadili to my task , but my weari overcam me and , fall back upon the sette , I drop into a heavi sleep . how long I slept I do not know , but it wa quit dark when I awok . confus by the chlorodyn which I had taken , I lay motionless in a semi-consci state . the great room with it high wall cover with book loom darkli all round me . A dim radianc from the moonlight came through the farther window , and against thi lighter background I saw that sir john bollamor wa sit at hi studi tabl . hi well-set head and clearli cut profil were sharpli outlin against the glimmer squar behind him . He bent as I watch him , and I heard the sharp turn of a key and the rasp of metal upon metal . As if in a dream I wa vagu consciou that thi wa the japan box which stood in front of him , and that he had drawn someth out of it , someth squat and uncouth , which now lay befor him upon the tabl . I never realiz -- it never occur to my bemuddl and torpid brain that I wa intrud upon hi privaci , that he imagin himself to be alon in the room . and then , just as it rush upon my horrifi percept , and I had half risen to announc my presenc , I heard a strang , crisp , metal click , and then the voic . ye , it wa a woman 's voic ; there could not be a doubt of it . but a voic so charg with entreati and with yearn love , that it will ring for ever in my ear . It came with a curiou faraway tinkl , but everi word wa clear , though faint -- veri faint , for they were the last word of a die woman . `` I am not realli gone , john , '' said the thin , gasp voic . `` I am here at your veri elbow , and shall be until we meet onc more . I die happi to think that morn and night you will hear my voic . Oh , john , be strong , be strong , until we meet again . '' I say that I had risen in order to announc my presenc , but I could not do so while the voic wa sound . I could onli remain half lie , half sit , paralys , astound , listen to those yearn distant music word . and he -- he wa so absorb that even if I had spoken he might not have heard me . but with the silenc of the voic came my half articul apolog and explan . He sprang across the room , switch on the electr light , and in it white glare I saw him , hi eye gleam with anger , hi face twist with passion , as the hapless charwoman may have seen him week befor . `` Mr . colmor ! '' he cri . `` you here ! what is the mean of thi , sir ? '' with halt word I explain it all , my neuralgia , the narcot , my luckless sleep and singular awaken . As he listen the glow of anger fade from hi face , and the sad , impass mask close onc more over hi featur . `` My secret is your , mr. colmor , '' said he . `` I have onli myself to blame for relax my precaut . half confid are wors than no confid , and so you may know all sinc you know so much . the stori may go where you will when I have pass away , but until then I reli upon your sens of honour that no human soul shall hear it from your lip . I am proud still -- god help me ! -- or , at least , I am proud enough to resent that piti which thi stori would draw upon me . I have smile at envi , and disregard hatr , but piti is more than I can toler . `` you have heard the sourc from which the voic come -- that voic which ha , as I understand , excit so much curios in my household . I am awar of the rumour to which it ha given rise . these specul , whether scandal or superstiti , are such as I can disregard and forgiv . what I should never forgiv would be a disloy spi and eavesdrop in order to satisfi an illicit curios . but of that , mr. colmor , I acquit you . `` when I wa a young man , sir , mani year younger than you are now , I wa launch upon town without a friend or advis , and with a purs which brought onli too mani fals friend and fals advis to my side . I drank deepli of the wine of life -- if there is a man live who ha drunk more deepli he is not a man whom I envi . My purs suffer , my charact suffer , my constitut suffer , stimul becam a necess to me , I wa a creatur from whom my memori recoil . and it wa at that time , the time of my blackest degrad , that god sent into my life the gentlest , sweetest spirit that ever descend as a minist angel from abov . she love me , broken as I wa , love me , and spent her life in make a man onc more of that which had degrad itself to the level of the beast . `` but a fell diseas struck her , and she wither away befor my eye . In the hour of her agoni it wa never of herself , of her own suffer and her own death that she thought . It wa all of me . the one pang which her fate brought to her wa the fear that when her influenc wa remov I should revert to that which I had been . It wa in vain that I made oath to her that no drop of wine would ever cross my lip . she knew onli too well the hold that the devil had upon me -- she who had striven so to loosen it -- and it haunt her night and day the thought that my soul might again be within hi grip . `` It wa from some friend 's gossip of the sick room that she heard of thi invent -- thi phonograph -- and with the quick insight of a love woman she saw how she might use it for her end . she sent me to london to procur the best which money could buy . with her die breath she gasp into it the word which have held me straight ever sinc . lone and broken , what els have I in all the world to uphold me ? but it is enough . pleas god , I shall face her without shame when He is pleas to reunit us ! that is my secret , mr. colmor , and whilst I live I leav it in your keep . '' the black doctor bishop 's cross is a small villag lie ten mile in a south-westerli direct from liverpool . here in the earli seventi there settl a doctor name aloysiu lana . noth wa known local either of hi anteced or of the reason which had prompt him to come to thi lancashir hamlet . two fact onli were certain about him ; the one that he had gain hi medic qualif with some distinct at glasgow ; the other that he came undoubtedli of a tropic race , and wa so dark that he might almost have had a strain of the indian in hi composit . hi predomin featur were , howev , european , and he possess a state courtesi and carriag which suggest a spanish extract . A swarthi skin , raven-black hair , and dark , sparkl eye under a pair of heavily-tuft brow made a strang contrast to the flaxen or chestnut rustic of england , and the newcom wa soon known as `` the black doctor of bishop 's cross . '' At first it wa a term of ridicul and reproach ; as the year went on it becam a titl of honour which wa familiar to the whole countrysid , and extend far beyond the narrow confin of the villag . for the newcom prove himself to be a capabl surgeon and an accomplish physician . the practic of that district had been in the hand of edward row , the son of sir william row , the liverpool consult , but he had not inherit the talent of hi father , and dr. lana , with hi advantag of presenc and of manner , soon beat him out of the field . dr. lana 's social success wa as rapid as hi profession . A remark surgic cure in the case of the hon . jame lowri , the second son of lord belton , wa the mean of introduc him to counti societi , where he becam a favourit through the charm of hi convers and the eleg of hi manner . An absenc of anteced and of rel is sometim an aid rather than an impedi to social advanc , and the distinguish individu of the handsom doctor wa it own recommend . hi patient had one fault -- and one fault onli -- to find with him . He appear to be a confirm bachelor . thi wa the more remark sinc the hous which he occupi wa a larg one , and it wa known that hi success in practic had enabl him to save consider sum . At first the local matchmak were continu coupl hi name with one or other of the elig ladi , but as year pass and dr. lana remain unmarri , it came to be gener understood that for some reason he must remain a bachelor . some even went so far as to assert that he wa alreadi marri , and that it wa in order to escap the consequ of an earli misalli that he had buri himself at bishop 's cross . and , then , just as the matchmak had final given him up in despair , hi engag wa suddenli announc to miss franc morton , of leigh hall . miss morton wa a young ladi who wa well known upon the country-sid , her father , jame haldan morton , have been the squir of bishop 's cross . both her parent were , howev , dead , and she live with her onli brother , arthur morton , who had inherit the famili estat . In person miss morton wa tall and state , and she wa famou for her quick , impetu natur and for her strength of charact . she met dr. lana at a garden-parti , and a friendship , which quickli ripen into love , sprang up between them . noth could exceed their devot to each other . there wa some discrep in age , he be thirty-seven , and she twenty-four ; but , save in that one respect , there wa no possibl object to be found with the match . the engag wa in februari , and it wa arrang that the marriag should take place in august . upon the 3rd of june dr. lana receiv a letter from abroad . In a small villag the postmast is also in a posit to be the gossip-mast , and mr. bankley , of bishop 's cross , had mani of the secret of hi neighbour in hi possess . Of thi particular letter he remark onli that it wa in a curiou envelop , that it wa in a man 's handwrit , that the postscript wa bueno ayr , and the stamp of the argentin republ . It wa the first letter which he had ever known dr. lana to have from abroad and thi wa the reason whi hi attent wa particularli call to it befor he hand it to the local postman . It wa deliv by the even deliveri of that date . next morn -- that is , upon the 4th of june -- dr. lana call upon miss morton , and a long interview follow , from which he wa observ to return in a state of great agit . miss morton remain in her room all that day , and her maid found her sever time in tear . In the cours of a week it wa an open secret to the whole villag that the engag wa at an end , that dr. lana had behav shame to the young ladi , and that arthur morton , her brother , wa talk of horse-whip him . In what particular respect the doctor had behav badli wa unknown -- some surmis one thing and some anoth ; but it wa observ , and taken as the obviou sign of a guilti conscienc , that he would go for mile round rather than pass the window of leigh hall , and that he gave up attend morn servic upon sunday where he might have met the young ladi . there wa an advertis also in the lancet as to the sale of a practic which mention no name , but which wa thought by some to refer to bishop 's cross , and to mean that dr. lana wa think of abandon the scene of hi success . such wa the posit of affair when , upon the even of monday , june 21st , there came a fresh develop which chang what had been a mere villag scandal into a tragedi which arrest the attent of the whole nation . some detail is necessari to caus the fact of that even to present their full signific . the sole occup of the doctor 's hous were hi housekeep , an elderli and most respect woman , name martha wood , and a young servant -- mari pill . the coachman and the surgery-boy slept out . It wa the custom of the doctor to sit at night in hi studi , which wa next the surgeri in the wing of the hous which wa farthest from the servant ' quarter . thi side of the hous had a door of it own for the conveni of patient , so that it wa possibl for the doctor to admit and receiv a visitor there without the knowledg of anyon . As a matter of fact , when patient came late it wa quit usual for him to let them in and out by the surgeri entranc , for the maid and the housekeep were in the habit of retir earli . On thi particular night martha wood went into the doctor 's studi at half-past nine , and found him write at hi desk . she bade him good night , sent the maid to bed , and then occupi herself until a quarter to eleven in household matter . It wa strike eleven upon the hall clock when she went to her own room . she had been there about a quarter of an hour or twenti minut when she heard a cri or call , which appear to come from within the hous . she wait some time , but it wa not repeat . much alarm , for the sound wa loud and urgent , she put on a dressing-gown , and ran at the top of her speed to the doctor 's studi . `` who 's there ? '' cri a voic , as she tap at the door . `` I am here , sir -- mr . wood . '' `` I beg that you will leav me in peac . Go back to your room thi instant ! '' cri the voic , which wa , to the best of her belief , that of her master . the tone wa so harsh and so unlik her master 's usual manner , that she wa surpris and hurt . `` I thought I heard you call , sir , '' she explain , but no answer wa given to her . mrs. wood look at the clock as she return to her room , and it wa then half-past eleven . At some period between eleven and twelv ( she could not be posit as to the exact hour ) a patient call upon the doctor and wa unabl to get ani repli from him . thi late visitor wa mrs. mad , the wife of the villag grocer , who wa danger ill of typhoid fever . dr. lana had ask her to look in the last thing and let him know how her husband wa progress . she observ that the light wa burn in the studi , but have knock sever time at the surgeri door without respons , she conclud that the doctor had been call out , and so return home . there is a short , wind drive with a lamp at the end of it lead down from the hous to the road . As mrs. mad emerg from the gate a man wa come along the footpath . think that it might be dr. lana return from some profession visit , she wait for him , and wa surpris to see that it wa mr. arthur morton , the young squir . In the light of the lamp she observ that hi manner wa excit , and that he carri in hi hand a heavi hunting-crop . He wa turn in at the gate when she address him . `` the doctor is not in , sir , '' said she . `` how do you know that ? '' he ask harshli . `` I have been to the surgeri door , sir . '' `` I see a light , '' said the young squir , look up the drive . `` that is in hi studi , is it not ? '' `` ye , sir ; but I am sure that he is out . '' `` well , he must come in again , '' said young morton , and pass through the gate while mrs. mad went upon her homeward way . At three o'clock that morn her husband suffer a sharp relaps , and she wa so alarm by hi symptom that she determin to call the doctor without delay . As she pass through the gate she wa surpris to see someon lurk among the laurel bush . It wa certainli a man , and to the best of her belief mr. arthur morton . preoccupi with her own troubl , she gave no particular attent to the incid , but hurri on upon her errand . when she reach the hous she perceiv to her surpris that the light wa still burn in the studi . she therefor tap at the surgeri door . there wa no answer . she repeat the knock sever time without effect . It appear to her to be unlik that the doctor would either go to bed or go out leav so brilliant a light behind him , and it struck mrs. mad that it wa possibl that he might have drop asleep in hi chair . she tap at the studi window , therefor , but without result . then , find that there wa an open between the curtain and the woodwork , she look through . the small room wa brilliantli light from a larg lamp on the central tabl , which wa litter with the doctor 's book and instrument . No one wa visibl , nor did she see anyth unusu , except that in the farther shadow thrown by the tabl a dingi white glove wa lie upon the carpet . and then suddenli , as her eye becam more accustom to the light , a boot emerg from the other end of the shadow , and she realiz , with a thrill of horror , that what she had taken to be a glove wa the hand of a man , who wa prostrat upon the floor . understand that someth terribl had occur , she rang at the front door , rous mrs. wood , the housekeep , and the two women made their way into the studi , have first dispatch the maidserv to the police-st . At the side of the tabl , away from the window , dr. lana wa discov stretch upon hi back and quit dead . It wa evid that he had been subject to violenc , for one of hi eye wa blacken and there were mark of bruis about hi face and neck . A slight thicken and swell of hi featur appear to suggest that the caus of hi death had been strangul . He wa dress in hi usual profession cloth , but wore cloth slipper , the sole of which were perfectli clean . the carpet wa mark all over , especi on the side of the door , with trace of dirti boot , which were presum left by the murder . It wa evid that someon had enter by the surgeri door , had kill the doctor , and had then made hi escap unseen . that the assail wa a man wa certain , from the size of the footprint and from the natur of the injuri . but beyond that point the polic found it veri difficult to go . there were no sign of robberi , and the doctor 's gold watch wa safe in hi pocket . He kept a heavi cash-box in the room , and thi wa discov to be lock but empti . mrs. wood had an impress that a larg sum wa usual kept there , but the doctor had paid a heavi corn bill in cash onli that veri day , and it wa conjectur that it wa to thi and not to a robber that the empti of the box wa due . one thing in the room wa miss -- but that one thing wa suggest . the portrait of miss morton , which had alway stood upon the side-t , had been taken from it frame , and carri off . mrs. wood had observ it there when she wait upon her employ that even , and now it wa gone . On the other hand , there wa pick up from the floor a green eye-patch , which the housekeep could not rememb to have seen befor . such a patch might , howev , be in the possess of a doctor , and there wa noth to indic that it wa in ani way connect with the crime . suspicion could onli turn in one direct , and arthur morton , the young squir , wa immedi arrest . the evid against him wa circumstanti , but damn . He wa devot to hi sister , and it wa shown that sinc the ruptur between her and dr. lana he had been heard again and again to express himself in the most vindict term toward her former lover . He had , as state , been seen somewher about eleven o'clock enter the doctor 's drive with a hunting-crop in hi hand . He had then , accord to the theori of the polic , broken in upon the doctor , whose exclam of fear or of anger had been loud enough to attract the attent of mrs. wood . when mrs. wood descend , dr. lana had made up hi mind to talk it over with hi visitor , and had , therefor , sent hi housekeep back to her room . thi convers had last a long time , had becom more and more fieri , and had end by a person struggl , in which the doctor lost hi life . the fact , reveal by a post-mortem , that hi heart wa much diseas -- an ailment quit unsuspect dure hi life -- would make it possibl that death might in hi case ensu from injuri which would not be fatal to a healthi man . arthur morton had then remov hi sister 's photograph , and had made hi way homeward , step asid into the laurel bush to avoid mrs. mad at the gate . thi wa the theori of the prosecut , and the case which they present wa a formid one . On the other hand , there were some strong point for the defenc . morton wa high-spirit and impetu , like hi sister , but he wa respect and like by everyon , and hi frank and honest natur seem to be incap of such a crime . hi own explan wa that he wa anxiou to have a convers with dr. lana about some urgent famili matter ( from first to last he refus even to mention the name of hi sister ) . He did not attempt to deni that thi convers would probabl have been of an unpleas natur . He had heard from a patient that the doctor wa out , and he therefor wait until about three in the morn for hi return , but as he had seen noth of him up to that hour , he had given it up and had return home . As to hi death , he knew no more about it than the constabl who arrest him . He had formerli been an intim friend of the deceas man ; but circumst , which he would prefer not to mention , had brought about a chang in hi sentiment . there were sever fact which support hi innoc . It wa certain that dr. lana wa aliv and in hi studi at half-past eleven o'clock . mrs. wood wa prepar to swear that it wa at that hour that she had heard hi voic . the friend of the prison contend that it wa probabl that at that time dr. lana wa not alon . the sound which had origin attract the attent of the housekeep , and her master 's unusu impati that she should leav him in peac , seem to point to that . If thi were so then it appear to be probabl that he had met hi end between the moment when the housekeep heard hi voic and the time when mrs. mad made her first call and found it imposs to attract hi attent . but if thi were the time of hi death , then it wa certain that mr. arthur morton could not be guilti , as it wa after thi that she had met the young squir at the gate . If thi hypothesi were correct , and someon wa with dr. lana befor mrs. mad met mr. arthur morton , then who wa thi someon , and what motiv had he for wish evil to the doctor ? It wa univers admit that if the friend of the accus could throw light upon thi , they would have gone a long way toward establish hi innoc . but in the meanwhil it wa open to the public to say -- as they did say -- that there wa no proof that anyon had been there at all except the young squir ; while , on the other hand , there wa ampl proof that hi motiv in go were of a sinist kind . when mrs. mad call , the doctor might have retir to hi room , or he might , as she thought at the time , have gone out and return afterward to find mr. arthur morton wait for him . some of the support of the accus laid stress upon the fact that the photograph of hi sister franc , which had been remov from the doctor 's room , had not been found in her brother 's possess . thi argument , howev , did not count for much , as he had ampl time befor hi arrest to burn it or to destroy it . As to the onli posit evid in the case -- the muddi footmark upon the floor -- they were so blur by the soft of the carpet that it wa imposs to make ani trustworthi deduct from them . the most that could be said wa that their appear wa not inconsist with the theori that they were made by the accus , and it wa further shown that hi boot were veri muddi upon that night . there had been a heavi shower in the afternoon , and all boot were probabl in the same condit . such is a bald statement of the singular and romant seri of event which centr public attent upon thi lancashir tragedi . the unknown origin of the doctor , hi curiou and distinguish person , the posit of the man who wa accus of the murder , and the love affair which had preced the crime all combin to make the affair one of those drama which absorb the whole interest of a nation . throughout the three kingdom men discuss the case of the black doctor of bishop 's cross , and mani were the theori put forward to explain the fact ; but it may safe be said that among them all there wa not one which prepar the mind of the public for the extraordinari sequel , which caus so much excit upon the first day of the trial , and came to a climax upon the second . the long file of the lancast weekli with their report of the case lie befor me as I write , but I must content myself with a synopsi of the case up to the point when , upon the even of the first day , the evid of miss franc morton threw a singular light upon the case . mr. porlock carr , the counsel for the prosecut , had marshal hi fact with hi usual skill , and as the day wore on , it becam more and more evid how difficult wa the task which mr. humphrey , who had been retain for the defenc , had befor him . sever wit were put up to swear to the intemper express which the young squir had been heard to utter about the doctor , and the fieri manner in which he resent the alleg ill-treat of hi sister . mrs. mad repeat her evid as to the visit which had been paid late at night by the prison to the deceas , and it wa shown by anoth wit that the prison wa awar that the doctor wa in the habit of sit up alon in thi isol wing of the hous , and that he had chosen thi veri late hour to call becaus he knew that hi victim would then be at hi merci . A servant at the squir 's hous wa compel to admit that he had heard hi master return about three that morn , which corrobor mrs. mad 's statement that she had seen him among the laurel bush near the gate upon the occas of her second visit . the muddi boot and an alleg similar in the footprint were duli dwelt upon , and it wa felt when the case for the prosecut had been present that , howev circumstanti it might be , it wa none the less so complet and so convinc , that the fate of the prison wa seal , unless someth quit unexpect should be disclos by the defenc . It wa three o'clock when the prosecut close . At half-past four , when the court rose , a new and unlooked-for develop had occur . I extract the incid , or part of it , from the journal which I have alreadi mention , omit the preliminari observ of the counsel . consider sensat wa caus in the crowd court when the first wit call for the defenc prove to be miss franc morton , the sister of the prison . our reader will rememb that the young ladi had been engag to dr. lana , and that it wa hi anger over the sudden termin of thi engag which wa thought to have driven her brother to the perpetr of thi crime . miss morton had not , howev , been directli implic in the case in ani way , either at the inquest or at the police-court proceed , and her appear as the lead wit for the defenc came as a surpris upon the public . miss franc morton , who wa a tall and handsom brunett , gave her evid in a low but clear voic , though it wa evid throughout that she wa suffer from extrem emot . she allud to her engag to the doctor , touch briefli upon it termin , which wa due , she said , to person matter connect with hi famili , and surpris the court by assert that she had alway consid her brother 's resent to be unreason and intemper . In answer to a direct question from her counsel , she repli that she did not feel that she had ani grievanc whatev against dr. lana , and that in her opinion he had act in a perfectli honour manner . her brother , on an insuffici knowledg of the fact , had taken anoth view , and she wa compel to acknowledg that , in spite of her entreati , he had utter threat of person violenc against the doctor , and had , upon the even of the tragedi , announc hi intent of `` have it out with him . '' she had done her best to bring him to a more reason frame of mind , but he wa veri headstrong where hi emot or prejudic were concern . Up to thi point the young ladi 's evid had appear to make against the prison rather than in hi favour . the question of her counsel , howev , soon put a veri differ light upon the matter , and disclos an unexpect line of defenc . mr. humphrey : Do you believ your brother to be guilti of thi crime ? the judg : I can not permit that question , mr. humphrey . We are here to decid upon question of fact -- not of belief . mr. humphrey : Do you know that your brother is not guilti of the death of doctor lana ? miss morton : ye . mr. humphrey : how do you know it ? miss morton : becaus dr. lana is not dead . there follow a prolong sensat in court , which interrupt the examin of the wit . mr. humphrey : and how do you know , miss morton , that dr. lana is not dead ? miss morton : becaus I have receiv a letter from him sinc the date of hi suppos death . mr. humphrey : have you thi letter ? miss morton : ye , but I should prefer not to show it . mr. humphrey : have you the envelop ? miss morton : ye , it is here . mr. humphrey : what is the post-mark ? miss morton : liverpool . mr. humphrey : and the date ? miss morton : june the 22nd . mr. humphrey : that be the day after hi alleg death . are you prepar to swear to thi handwrit , miss morton ? miss morton : certainli . mr. humphrey : I am prepar to call six other wit , my lord , to testifi that thi letter is in the write of doctor lana . the judg : then you must call them tomorrow . mr. porlock carr ( counsel for the prosecut ) : In the meantim , my lord , we claim possess of thi document , so that we may obtain expert evid as to how far it is an imit of the handwrit of the gentleman whom we still confid assert to be deceas . I need not point out that the theori so unexpectedli sprung upon us may prove to be a veri obviou devic adopt by the friend of the prison in order to divert thi inquiri . I would draw attent to the fact that the young ladi must , accord to her own account , have possess thi letter dure the proceed at the inquest and at the police-court . she desir us to believ that she permit these to proceed , although she held in her pocket evid which would at ani moment have brought them to an end . mr. humphrey . can you explain thi , miss morton ? miss morton : dr. lana desir hi secret to be preserv . mr. porlock carr : then whi have you made thi public ? miss morton : To save my brother . A murmur of sympathi broke out in court , which wa instantli suppress by the judg . the judg : admit thi line of defenc , it lie with you , mr. humphrey , to throw a light upon who thi man is whose bodi ha been recogn by so mani friend and patient of dr. lana as be that of the doctor himself . A juryman : ha anyon up to now express ani doubt about the matter ? mr. porlock carr : not to my knowledg . mr. humphrey : We hope to make the matter clear . the judg : then the court adjourn until tomorrow . thi new develop of the case excit the utmost interest among the gener public . press comment wa prevent by the fact that the trial wa still undecid , but the question wa everywher argu as to how far there could be truth in miss morton 's declar , and how far it might be a dare ruse for the purpos of save her brother . the obviou dilemma in which the miss doctor stood wa that if by ani extraordinari chanc he wa not dead , then he must be held respons for the death of thi unknown man , who resembl him so exactli , and who wa found in hi studi . thi letter which miss morton refus to produc wa possibl a confess of guilt , and she might find herself in the terribl posit of onli be abl to save her brother from the gallow by the sacrific of her former lover . the court next morn wa cram to overflow , and a murmur of excit pass over it when mr. humphrey wa observ to enter in a state of emot , which even hi train nerv could not conceal , and to confer with the oppos counsel . A few hurri word -- word which left a look of amaz upon mr. porlock carr 's face -- pass between them , and then the counsel for the defenc , address the judg , announc that , with the consent of the prosecut , the young ladi who had given evid upon the sit befor would not be recal . the judg : but you appear , mr. humphrey , to have left matter in a veri unsatisfactori state . mr. humphrey : perhap , my lord , my next wit may help to clear them up . the judg : then call your next wit . mr. humphrey : I call dr. aloysiu lana . the learn counsel ha made mani tell remark in hi day , but he ha certainli never produc such a sensat with so short a sentenc . the court wa simpli stun with amaz as the veri man whose fate had been the subject of so much content appear bodili befor them in the witness-box . those among the spectat who had known him at bishop 's cross saw him now , gaunt and thin , with deep line of care upon hi face . but in spite of hi melancholi bear and despond express , there were few who could say that they had ever seen a man of more distinguish presenc . bow to the judg , he ask if he might be allow to make a statement , and have been duli inform that whatev he said might be use against him , he bow onc more , and proceed : `` My wish , '' said he , `` is to hold noth back , but to tell with perfect frank all that occur upon the night of the 21st of june . had I known that the innoc had suffer , and that so much troubl had been brought upon those whom I love best in the world , I should have come forward long ago ; but there were reason which prevent these thing from come to my ear . It wa my desir that an unhappi man should vanish from the world which had known him , but I had not foreseen that other would be affect by my action . let me to the best of my abil repair the evil which I have done . `` To anyon who is acquaint with the histori of the argentin republ the name of lana is well known . My father , who came of the best blood of old spain , fill all the highest offic of the state , and would have been presid but for hi death in the riot of san juan . A brilliant career might have been open to my twin brother ernest and myself had it not been for financi loss which made it necessari that we should earn our own live . I apolog , sir , if these detail appear to be irrelev , but they are a necessari introduct to that which is to follow . `` I had , as I have said , a twin brother name ernest , whose resembl to me wa so great that even when we were togeth peopl could see no differ between us . down to the smallest detail we were exactli the same . As we grew older thi like becam less mark becaus our express wa not the same , but with our featur in repos the point of differ were veri slight . `` It doe not becom me to say too much of one who is dead , the more so as he is my onli brother , but I leav hi charact to those who knew him best . I will onli say -- for I have to say it -- that in my earli manhood I conceiv a horror of him , and that I had good reason for the avers which fill me . My own reput suffer from hi action , for our close resembl caus me to be credit with mani of them . eventu , in a peculiarli disgrac busi , he contriv to throw the whole odium upon me in such a way that I wa forc to leav the argentin for ever , and to seek a career in europ . the freedom from hi hate presenc more than compens me for the loss of my nativ land . I had enough money to defray my medic studi at glasgow , and I final settl in practic at bishop 's cross , in the firm convict that in that remot lancashir hamlet I should never hear of him again . `` for year my hope were fulfil , and then at last he discov me . some liverpool man who visit bueno ayr put him upon my track . He had lost all hi money , and he thought that he would come over and share mine . know my horror of him , he rightli thought that I would be will to buy him off . I receiv a letter from him say that he wa come . It wa at a crisi in my own affair , and hi arriv might conceiv bring troubl , and even disgrac , upon some whom I wa especi bound to shield from anyth of the kind . I took step to insur that ani evil which might come should fall on me onli , and that '' -- here he turn and look at the prison -- '' wa the caus of conduct upon my part which ha been too harshli judg . My onli motiv wa to screen those who were dear to me from ani possibl connect with scandal or disgrac . that scandal and disgrac would come with my brother wa onli to say that what had been would be again . `` My brother arriv himself one night not veri long after my receipt of the letter . I wa sit in my studi after the servant had gone to bed , when I heard a footstep upon the gravel outsid , and an instant later I saw hi face look in at me through the window . He wa a clean-shaven man like myself , and the resembl between us wa still so great that , for an instant , I thought it wa my own reflect in the glass . He had a dark patch over hi eye , but our featur were absolut the same . then he smile in a sardon way which had been a trick of hi from hi boyhood , and I knew that he wa the same brother who had driven me from my nativ land , and brought disgrac upon what had been an honour name . I went to the door and I admit him . that would be about ten o'clock that night . `` when he came into the glare of the lamp , I saw at onc that he had fallen upon veri evil day . He had walk from liverpool , and he wa tire and ill . I wa quit shock by the express upon hi face . My medic knowledg told me that there wa some seriou intern maladi . He had been drink also , and hi face wa bruis as the result of a scuffl which he had had with some sailor . It wa to cover hi injur eye that he wore thi patch , which he remov when he enter the room . He wa himself dress in a pea-jacket and flannel shirt , and hi feet were burst through hi boot . but hi poverti had onli made him more savag vindict toward me . hi hatr rose to the height of a mania . I had been roll in money in england , accord to hi account , while he had been starv in south america . I can not describ to you the threat which he utter or the insult which he pour upon me . My impress is , that hardship and debaucheri had unhing hi reason . He pace about the room like a wild beast , demand drink , demand money , and all in the foulest languag . I am a hot-temp man , but I thank god that I am abl to say that I remain master of myself , and that I never rais a hand against him . My cool onli irrit him the more . He rave , he curs , he shook hi fist in my face , and then suddenli a horribl spasm pass over hi featur , he clap hi hand to hi side , and with a loud cri he fell in a heap at my feet . I rais him up and stretch him upon the sofa , but no answer came to my exclam , and the hand which I held in mine wa cold and clammi . hi diseas heart had broken down . hi own violenc had kill him . `` for a long time I sat as if I were in some dread dream , stare at the bodi of my brother . I wa arous by the knock of mrs. wood , who had been disturb by that die cri . I sent her away to bed . shortli afterward a patient tap at the surgeri door , but as I took no notic , he or she went off again . slowli and gradual as I sat there a plan wa form itself in my head in the curiou automat way in which plan do form . when I rose from my chair my futur movement were final decid upon without my have been consciou of ani process of thought . It wa an instinct which irresist inclin me toward one cours . `` ever sinc that chang in my affair to which I have allud , bishop 's cross had becom hate to me . My plan of life had been ruin , and I had met with hasti judgment and unkind treatment where I had expect sympathi . It is true that ani danger of scandal from my brother had pass away with hi life ; but still , I wa sore about the past , and felt that thing could never be as they had been . It may be that I wa unduli sensit , and that I had not made suffici allow for other , but my feel were as I describ . ani chanc of get away from bishop 's cross and of everyon in it would be most welcom to me . and here wa such a chanc as I could never have dare to hope for , a chanc which would enabl me to make a clean break with the past . `` there wa thi dead man lie upon the sofa , so like me that save for some littl thick and coars of the featur there wa no differ at all . No one had seen him come and no one would miss him . We were both clean-shaven , and hi hair wa about the same length as my own . If I chang cloth with him , then dr. aloysiu lana would be found lie dead in hi studi , and there would be an end of an unfortun fellow , and of a blight career . there wa plenti of readi money in the room , and thi I could carri away with me to help me to start onc more in some other land . In my brother 's cloth I could walk by night unobserv as far as liverpool , and in that great seaport I would soon find some mean of leav the countri . after my lost hope , the humblest exist where I wa unknown wa far prefer , in my estim , to a practic , howev success , in bishop 's cross , where at ani moment I might come face to face with those whom I should wish , if it were possibl , to forget . I determin to effect the chang . `` and I did so . I will not go into particular , for the recollect is as pain as the experi ; but in an hour my brother lay , dress down to the smallest detail in my cloth , while I slunk out by the surgeri door , and take the back path which led across some field , I start off to make the best of my way to liverpool , where I arriv the same night . My bag of money and a certain portrait were all I carri out of the hous , and I left behind me in my hurri the shade which my brother had been wear over hi eye . everyth els of hi I took with me . `` I give you my word , sir , that never for one instant did the idea occur to me that peopl might think that I had been murder , nor did I imagin that anyon might be caus seriou danger through thi stratagem by which I endeavour to gain a fresh start in the world . On the contrari , it wa the thought of reliev other from the burden of my presenc which wa alway uppermost in my mind . A sail vessel wa leav liverpool that veri day for corunna , and in thi I took my passag , think that the voyag would give me time to recov my balanc , and to consid the futur . but befor I left my resolut soften . I bethought me that there wa one person in the world to whom I would not caus an hour of sad . she would mourn me in her heart , howev harsh and unsympathet her rel might be . she understood and appreci the motiv upon which I had act , and if the rest of her famili condemn me , she , at least , would not forget . and so I sent her a note under the seal of secreci to save her from a baseless grief . If under the pressur of event she broke that seal , she ha my entir sympathi and forgiv . `` It wa onli last night that I return to england , and dure all thi time I have heard noth of the sensat which my suppos death had caus , nor of the accus that mr. arthur morton had been concern in it . It wa in a late even paper that I read an account of the proceed of yesterday , and I have come thi morn as fast as an express train could bring me to testifi to the truth . '' such wa the remark statement of dr. aloysiu lana which brought the trial to a sudden termin . A subsequ investig corrobor it to the extent of find out the vessel in which hi brother ernest lana had come over from south america . the ship 's doctor wa abl to testifi that he had complain of a weak heart dure the voyag , and that hi symptom were consist with such a death as wa describ . As to dr. aloysiu lana , he return to the villag from which he had made so dramat a disappear , and a complet reconcili wa effect between him and the young squir , the latter have acknowledg that he had entir misunderstood the other 's motiv in withdraw from hi engag . that anoth reconcili follow may be judg from a notic extract from a promin column in the morn post : `` A marriag wa solemn upon septemb 19th , by the rev . stephen johnson , at the parish church of bishop 's cross , between aloysiu xavier lana , son of don alfredo lana , formerli foreign minist of the argentin republ , and franc morton , onli daughter of the late jame morton , j.p. , of leigh hall , bishop 's cross , lancashir . '' the jew 's breastplat My particular friend , ward mortim , wa one of the best men of hi day at everyth connect with orient archaeolog . He had written larg upon the subject , he had live two year in a tomb at thebe , while he excav in the valley of the king , and final he had creat a consider sensat by hi exhum of the alleg mummi of cleopatra in the inner room of the templ of horu , at phila . with such a record at the age of thirty-on , it wa felt that a consider career lay befor him , and no one wa surpris when he wa elect to the curatorship of the belmor street museum , which carri with it the lectureship at the orient colleg , and an incom which ha sunk with the fall in land , but which still remain at that ideal sum which is larg enough to encourag an investig , but not so larg as to enerv him . there wa onli one reason which made ward mortim 's posit a littl difficult at the belmor street museum , and that wa the extrem emin of the man whom he had to succeed . professor andrea wa a profound scholar and a man of european reput . hi lectur were frequent by student from everi part of the world , and hi admir manag of the collect intrust to hi care wa a commonplac in all learn societi . there wa , therefor , consider surpris when , at the age of fifty-f , he suddenli resign hi posit and retir from those duti which had been both hi livelihood and hi pleasur . He and hi daughter left the comfort suit of room which had form hi offici resid in connect with the museum , and my friend , mortim , who wa a bachelor , took up hi quarter there . On hear of mortim 's appoint professor andrea had written him a veri kindli and flatter congratulatori letter . I wa actual present at their first meet , and I went with mortim round the museum when the professor show us the admir collect which he had cherish so long . the professor 's beauti daughter and a young man , captain wilson , who wa , as I understood , soon to be her husband , accompani us in our inspect . there were fifteen room , but the babylonian , the syrian , and the central hall , which contain the jewish and egyptian collect , were the finest of all . professor andrea wa a quiet , dri , elderli man , with a clean-shaven face and an impass manner , but hi dark eye sparkl and hi featur quicken into enthusiast life as he point out to us the rariti and the beauti of some of hi specimen . hi hand linger so fondli over them , that one could read hi pride in them and the grief in hi heart now that they were pass from hi care into that of anoth . He had shown us in turn hi mummi , hi papyri , hi rare scarab , hi inscript , hi jewish relic , and hi duplic of the famou seven-branch candlestick of the templ , which wa brought to rome by titu , and which is suppos by some to be lie at thi instant in the bed of the tiber . then he approach a case which stood in the veri centr of the hall , and he look down through the glass with rever in hi attitud and manner . `` thi is no novelti to an expert like yourself , mr. mortim , '' said he ; `` but I daresay that your friend , mr. jackson , will be interest to see it . '' lean over the case I saw an object , some five inch squar , which consist of twelv preciou stone in a framework of gold , with golden hook at two of the corner . the stone were all vari in sort and colour , but they were of the same size . their shape , arrang , and gradat of tint made me think of a box of water-colour paint . each stone had some hieroglyph scratch upon it surfac . `` you have heard , mr. jackson , of the urim and thummim ? '' I had heard the term , but my idea of it mean wa exceedingli vagu . `` the urim and thummim wa a name given to the jewel plate which lay upon the breast of the high priest of the jew . they had a veri special feel of rever for it -- someth of the feel which an ancient roman might have for the sibyllin book in the capitol . there are , as you see , twelv magnific stone , inscrib with mystic charact . count from the left-hand top corner , the stone are carnelian , peridot , emerald , rubi , lapi lazuli , onyx , sapphir , agat , amethyst , topaz , beryl , and jasper . '' I wa amaz at the varieti and beauti of the stone . `` ha the breastplat ani particular histori ? '' I ask . `` It is of great age and of immens valu , '' said professor andrea . `` without be abl to make an absolut assert , we have mani reason to think that it is possibl that it may be the origin urim and thummim of solomon 's templ . there is certainli noth so fine in ani collect in europ . My friend , captain wilson , here , is a practic author upon preciou stone , and he would tell you how pure these are . '' captain wilson , a man with a dark , hard , incis face , wa stand besid hi fiance at the other side of the case . `` ye , '' said he , curtli , `` I have never seen finer stone . '' `` and the gold-work is also worthi of attent . the ancient excel in -- -- '' -- he wa appar about to indic the set of the stone , when captain wilson interrupt him . `` you will see a finer exampl of their gold-work in thi candlestick , '' said he , turn to anoth tabl , and we all join him in hi admir of it emboss stem and delic ornament branch . altogeth it wa an interest and a novel experi to have object of such rariti explain by so great an expert ; and when , final , professor andrea finish our inspect by formal hand over the preciou collect to the care of my friend , I could not help piti him and envi hi successor whose life wa to pass in so pleasant a duti . within a week , ward mortim wa duli instal in hi new set of room , and had becom the autocrat of the belmor street museum . about a fortnight afterward my friend gave a small dinner to half a dozen bachelor friend to celebr hi promot . when hi guest were depart he pull my sleev and signal to me that he wish me to remain . `` you have onli a few hundr yard to go , '' said he -- I wa live in chamber in the albani . `` you may as well stay and have a quiet cigar with me . I veri much want your advic . '' I relaps into an arm-chair and lit one of hi excel matrona . when he had return from see the last of hi guest out , he drew a letter from hi dress-jacket and sat down opposit to me . `` thi is an anonym letter which I receiv thi morn , '' said he . `` I want to read it to you and to have your advic . '' `` you are veri welcom to it for what it is worth . '' `` thi is how the note run : 'sir , -- I should strongli advis you to keep a veri care watch over the mani valuabl thing which are commit to your charg . I do not think that the present system of a singl watchman is suffici . Be upon your guard , or an irrepar misfortun may occur . ' '' `` Is that all ? '' `` ye , that is all . '' `` well , '' said I , `` it is at least obviou that it wa written by one of the limit number of peopl who are awar that you have onli one watchman at night . '' ward mortim hand me the note , with a curiou smile . `` have you an eye for handwrit ? '' said he . `` now , look at thi ! '' He put anoth letter in front of me . `` look at the c in 'congratul ' and the c in 'commit . ' look at the capit I . look at the trick of put in a dash instead of a stop ! '' `` they are undoubtedli from the same hand -- with some attempt at disguis in the case of thi first one . '' `` the second , '' said ward mortim , `` is the letter of congratul which wa written to me by professor andrea upon my obtain my appoint . '' I stare at him in amaz . then I turn over the letter in my hand , and there , sure enough , wa `` martin andrea '' sign upon the other side . there could be no doubt , in the mind of anyon who had the slightest knowledg of the scienc of grapholog , that the professor had written an anonym letter , warn hi successor against thiev . It wa inexplic , but it wa certain . `` whi should he do it ? '' I ask . `` precis what I should wish to ask you . If he had ani such misgiv , whi could he not come and tell me direct ? '' `` will you speak to him about it ? '' `` there again I am in doubt . He might choos to deni that he wrote it . '' `` At ani rate , '' said I , `` thi warn is meant in a friendli spirit , and I should certainli act upon it . are the present precaut enough to insur you against robberi ? '' `` I should have thought so . the public are onli admit from ten till five , and there is a guardian to everi two room . He stand at the door between them , and so command them both . '' `` but at night ? '' `` when the public are gone , we at onc put up the great iron shutter , which are absolut burglar-proof . the watchman is a capabl fellow . He sit in the lodg , but he walk round everi three hour . We keep one electr light burn in each room all night . '' `` It is difficult to suggest anyth more -- short of keep your day watch all night . '' `` We could not afford that . '' `` At least , I should commun with the polic , and have a special constabl put on outsid in belmor street , '' said I . `` As to the letter , if the writer wish to be anonym , I think he ha a right to remain so . We must trust to the futur to show some reason for the curiou cours which he ha adopt . '' So we dismiss the subject , but all that night after my return to my chamber I wa puzzl my brain as to what possibl motiv professor andrea could have for write an anonym warn letter to hi successor -- for that the write wa hi wa as certain to me as if I had seen him actual do it . He foresaw some danger to the collect . wa it becaus he foresaw it that he abandon hi charg of it ? but if so , whi should he hesit to warn mortim in hi own name ? I puzzl and puzzl until at last I fell into a troubl sleep , which carri me beyond my usual hour of rise . I wa arous in a singular and effect method , for about nine o'clock my friend mortim rush into my room with an express of constern upon hi face . He wa usual one of the most tidi men of my acquaint , but now hi collar wa undon at one end , hi tie wa fli , and hi hat at the back of hi head . I read hi whole stori in hi frantic eye . `` the museum ha been rob ! '' I cri , spring up in bed . `` I fear so ! those jewel ! the jewel of the urim and thummim ! '' he gasp , for he wa out of breath with run . `` I 'm go on to the police-st . come to the museum as soon as you can , jackson ! good-by ! '' He rush distractedli out of the room , and I heard him clatter down the stair . I wa not long in follow hi direct , but I found when I arriv that he had alreadi return with a polic inspector , and anoth elderli gentleman , who prove to be mr. purvi , one of the partner of morson and compani , the well-known diamond merchant . As an expert in stone he wa alway prepar to advis the polic . they were group round the case in which the breastplat of the jewish priest had been expos . the plate had been taken out and laid upon the glass top of the case , and the three head were bent over it . `` It is obviou that it ha been tamper with , '' said mortim . `` It caught my eye the moment that I pass through the room thi morn . I examin it yesterday even , so that it is certain that thi ha happen dure the night . '' It wa , as he had said , obviou that someon had been at work upon it . the set of the uppermost row of four stone -- the carnelian , peridot , emerald , and rubi -- were rough and jag as if someon had scrape all round them . the stone were in their place , but the beauti gold-work which we had admir onli a few day befor had been veri clumsili pull about . `` It look to me , '' said the polic inspector , `` as if someon had been tri to take out the stone . '' `` My fear is , '' said mortim , `` that he not onli tri , but succeed . I believ these four stone to be skil imit which have been put in the place of the origin . '' the same suspicion had evid been in the mind of the expert , for he had been care examin the four stone with the aid of a len . He now submit them to sever test , and final turn cheer to mortim . `` I congratul you , sir , '' said he , heartili . `` I will pledg my reput that all four of these stone are genuin , and of a most unusu degre of puriti . '' the colour began to come back to my poor friend 's frighten face , and he drew a long breath of relief . `` thank god ! '' he cri . `` then what in the world did the thief want ? '' `` probabl he meant to take the stone , but wa interrupt . '' `` In that case one would expect him to take them out one at a time , but the set of each of these ha been loosen , and yet the stone are all here . '' `` It is certainli most extraordinari , '' said the inspector . `` I never rememb a case like it . let us see the watchman . '' the commissionair wa call -- a soldierli , honest-fac man , who seem as concern as ward mortim at the incid . `` No , sir , I never heard a sound , '' he answer , in repli to the question of the inspector . `` I made my round four time , as usual , but I saw noth suspici . I 've been in my posit ten year , but noth of the kind ha ever occur befor . '' `` No thief could have come through the window ? '' `` imposs , sir . '' `` Or pass you at the door ? '' `` No , sir ; I never left my post except when I walk my round . '' `` what other open are there in the museum ? '' `` there is the door into mr. ward mortim 's privat room . '' `` that is lock at night , '' my friend explain , `` and in order to reach it anyon from the street would have to open the outsid door as well . '' `` your servant ? '' `` their quarter are entir separ . '' `` well , well , '' said the inspector , `` thi is certainli veri obscur . howev , there ha been no harm done , accord to Mr . purvi . '' `` I will swear that those stone are genuin . '' `` So that the case appear to be mere one of malici damag . but none the less , I should be veri glad to go care round the premis , and to see if we can find ani trace to show us who your visitor may have been . '' hi investig , which last all the morn , wa care and intellig , but it led in the end to noth . He point out to us that there were two possibl entranc to the museum which we had not consid . the one wa from the cellar by a trap-door open in the passag . the other through a skylight from the lumber-room , overlook that veri chamber to which the intrud had penetr . As neither the cellar nor the lumber-room could be enter unless the thief wa alreadi within the lock door , the matter wa not of ani practic import , and the dust of cellar and attic assur us that no one had use either one or the other . final , we end as we began , without the slightest clue as to how , whi , or by whom the set of these four jewel had been tamper with . there remain one cours for mortim to take , and he took it . leav the polic to continu their fruitless research , he ask me to accompani him that afternoon in a visit to professor andrea . He took with him the two letter , and it wa hi intent to openli tax hi predecessor with have written the anonym warn , and to ask him to explain the fact that he should have anticip so exactli that which had actual occur . the professor wa live in a small villa in upper norwood , but we were inform by the servant that he wa away from home . see our disappoint , she ask us if we should like to see miss andrea , and show us into the modest drawing-room . I have mention incident that the professor 's daughter wa a veri beauti girl . she wa a blond , tall and grace , with a skin of that delic tint which the french call `` mat , '' the colour of old ivori , or of the lighter petal of the sulphur rose . I wa shock , howev , as she enter the room to see how much she had chang in the last fortnight . her young face wa haggard and her bright eye heavi with troubl . `` father ha gone to scotland , '' she said . `` He seem to be tire , and ha had a good deal to worri him . He onli left us yesterday . '' `` you look a littl tire yourself , miss andrea , '' said my friend . `` I have been so anxiou about father . '' `` can you give me hi scotch address ? '' `` ye , he is with hi brother , the rev . david andrea , 1 , arran villa , ardrossan . '' ward mortim made a note of the address , and we left without say anyth as to the object of our visit . We found ourselv in belmor street in the even in exactli the same posit in which we had been in the morn . our onli clue wa the professor 's letter , and my friend had made up hi mind to start for ardrossan next day , and to get to the bottom of the anonym letter , when a new develop came to alter our plan . veri earli on the follow morn I wa arous from my sleep by a tap upon my bedroom door . It wa a messeng with a note from mortim . `` Do come round , '' it said ; `` the matter is becom more and more extraordinari . '' when I obey hi summon I found him pace excitedli up and down the central room , while the old soldier who guard the premis stood with militari stiff in a corner . `` My dear jackson , '' he cri , `` I am so delight that you have come , for thi is a most inexplic busi . '' `` what ha happen , then ? '' He wave hi hand toward the case which contain the breastplat . `` look at it , '' said he . I did so , and could not restrain a cri of surpris . the set of the middl row of preciou stone had been profan in the same manner as the upper one . Of the twelv jewel eight had been now tamper with in thi singular fashion . the set of the lower four wa neat and smooth . the other jag and irregular . `` have the stone been alter ? '' I ask . `` No , I am certain that these upper four are the same which the expert pronounc to be genuin , for I observ yesterday that littl discolor on the edg of the emerald . sinc they have not extract the upper stone , there is no reason to think the lower have been transpos . you say that you heard noth , simpson ? '' `` No , sir , '' the commissionair answer . `` but when I made my round after daylight I had a special look at these stone , and I saw at onc that someon had been meddl with them . then I call you , sir , and told you . I wa backward and forward all night , and I never saw a soul or heard a sound . '' `` come up and have some breakfast with me , '' said mortim , and he took me into hi own chambers. -- '' now , what DO you think of thi , jackson ? '' he ask . `` It is the most objectless , futil , idiot busi that ever I heard of . It can onli be the work of a monomaniac . '' `` can you put forward ani theori ? '' A curiou idea came into my head . `` thi object is a jewish relic of great antiqu and sanctiti , '' said I . `` how about the anti-semit movement ? could one conceiv that a fanat of that way of think might desecr -- -- '' `` No , no , no ! '' cri mortim . `` that will never do ! such a man might push hi lunaci to the length of destroy a jewish relic , but whi on earth should he nibbl round everi stone so care that he can onli do four stone in a night ? We must have a better solut than that , and we must find it for ourselv , for I do not think that our inspector is like to help us . first of all , what do you think of simpson , the porter ? '' `` have you ani reason to suspect him ? '' `` onli that he is the one person on the premis . '' `` but whi should he indulg in such wanton destruct ? noth ha been taken away . He ha no motiv . '' `` mania ? '' `` No , I will swear to hi saniti . '' `` have you ani other theori ? '' `` well , yourself , for exampl . you are not a somnambulist , by ani chanc ? '' `` noth of the sort , I assur you . '' `` then I give it up . '' `` but I do n't -- and I have a plan by which we will make it all clear . '' `` To visit professor andrea ? '' `` No , we shall find our solut nearer than scotland . I will tell you what we shall do . you know that skylight which overlook the central hall ? We will leav the electr light in the hall , and we will keep watch in the lumber-room , you and I , and solv the mysteri for ourselv . If our mysteri visitor is do four stone at a time , he ha four still to do , and there is everi reason to think that he will return tonight and complet the job . '' `` excel ! '' I cri . `` We will keep our own secret , and say noth either to the polic or to simpson . will you join me ? '' `` with the utmost pleasur , '' said I ; and so it wa agre . It wa ten o'clock that night when I return to the belmor street museum . mortim wa , as I could see , in a state of suppress nervou excit , but it wa still too earli to begin our vigil , so we remain for an hour or so in hi chamber , discuss all the possibl of the singular busi which we had met to solv . At last the roar stream of hansom cab and the rush of hurri feet becam lower and more intermitt as the pleasure-seek pass on their way to their station or their home . It wa nearli twelv when mortim led the way to the lumber-room which overlook the central hall of the museum . He had visit it dure the day , and had spread some sack so that we could lie at our eas , and look straight down into the museum . the skylight wa of unfrost glass , but wa so cover with dust that it would be imposs for anyon look up from below to detect that he wa overlook . We clear a small piec at each corner , which gave us a complet view of the room beneath us . In the cold white light of the electr lamp everyth stood out hard and clear , and I could see the smallest detail of the content of the variou case . such a vigil is an excel lesson , sinc one ha no choic but to look hard at those object which we usual pass with such half-heart interest . through my littl peep hole I employ the hour in studi everi specimen , from the huge mummy-cas which lean against the wall to those veri jewel which had brought us there , gleam and sparkl in their glass case immedi beneath us . there wa much preciou gold-work and mani valuabl stone scatter through the numer case , but those wonder twelv which made up the urim and thummim glow and burn with a radianc which far eclips the other . I studi in turn the tomb-pictur of sicara , the friez from karnak , the statu of memphi , and the inscript of thebe , but my eye would alway come back to that wonder jewish relic , and my mind to the singular mysteri which surround it . I wa lost in the thought of it when my companion suddenli drew hi breath sharpli in , and seiz my arm in a convuls grip . At the same instant I saw what it wa which had excit him . I have said that against the wall -- on the right-hand side of the doorway ( the right-hand side as we look at it , but the left as one enter ) -- there stood a larg mummy-cas . To our unutter amaz it wa slowli open . gradual , gradual the lid wa swing back , and the black slit which mark the open wa becom wider and wider . So gentli and care wa it done that the movement wa almost impercept . then , as we breathlessli watch it , a white thin hand appear at the open , push back the paint lid , then anoth hand , and final a face -- a face which wa familiar to us both , that of professor andrea . stealthili he slunk out of the mummy-cas , like a fox steal from it burrow , hi head turn incessantli to left and to right , step , then paus , then step again , the veri imag of craft and of caution . onc some sound in the street struck him motionless , and he stood listen , with hi ear turn , readi to dart back to the shelter behind him . then he crept onward again upon tipto , veri , veri softli and slowli , until he had reach the case in the centr of the room . there he took a bunch of key from hi pocket , unlock the case , took out the jewish breastplat , and , lay it upon the glass in front of him , began to work upon it with some sort of small , glisten tool . He wa so directli underneath us that hi bent head cover hi work , but we could guess from the movement of hi hand that he wa engag in finish the strang disfigur which he had begun . I could realiz from the heavi breath of my companion , and the twitch of the hand which still clutch my wrist , the furiou indign which fill hi heart as he saw thi vandal in the quarter of all other where he could least have expect it . He , the veri man who a fortnight befor had rever bent over thi uniqu relic , and who had impress it antiqu and it sanctiti upon us , wa now engag in thi outrag profan . It wa imposs , unthink -- and yet there , in the white glare of the electr light beneath us , wa that dark figur with the bent grey head , and the twitch elbow . what inhuman hypocrisi , what hate depth of malic against hi successor must underli these sinist nocturn labour . It wa pain to think of and dread to watch . even I , who had none of the acut feel of a virtuoso , could not bear to look on and see thi deliber mutil of so ancient a relic . It wa a relief to me when my companion tug at my sleev as a signal that I wa to follow him as he softli crept out of the room . It wa not until we were within hi own quarter that he open hi lip , and then I saw by hi agit face how deep wa hi constern . `` the abomin goth ! '' he cri . `` could you have believ it ? '' `` It is amaz . '' `` He is a villain or a lunat -- one or the other . We shall veri soon see which . come with me , jackson , and we shall get to the bottom of thi black busi . '' A door open out of the passag which wa the privat entranc from hi room into the museum . thi he open softli with hi key , have first kick off hi shoe , an exampl which I follow . We crept togeth through room after room , until the larg hall lay befor us , with that dark figur still stoop and work at the central case . with an advanc as cautiou as hi own we close in upon him , but softli as we went we could not take him entir unawar . We were still a dozen yard from him when he look round with a start , and utter a huski cri of terror , ran frantic down the museum . `` simpson ! simpson ! '' roar mortim , and far away down the vista of electr light door we saw the stiff figur of the old soldier suddenli appear . professor andrea saw him also , and stop run , with a gestur of despair . At the same instant we each laid a hand upon hi shoulder . `` ye , ye , gentlemen , '' he pant , `` I will come with you . To your room , mr. ward mortim , if you pleas ! I feel that I owe you an explan . '' My companion 's indign wa so great that I could see that he dare not trust himself to repli . We walk on each side of the old professor , the astonish commissionair bring up the rear . when we reach the violat case , mortim stop and examin the breastplat . alreadi one of the stone of the lower row had had it set turn back in the same manner as the other . My friend held it up and glanc furious at hi prison . `` how could you ! '' he cri . `` how could you ! '' `` It is horribl -- horribl ! '' said the professor . `` I do n't wonder at your feel . take me to your room . '' `` but thi shall not be left expos ! '' cri mortim . He pick the breastplat up and carri it tenderli in hi hand , while I walk besid the professor , like a policeman with a malefactor . We pass into mortim 's chamber , leav the amaz old soldier to understand matter as best he could . the professor sat down in mortim 's arm-chair , and turn so ghastli a colour that for the instant all our resent wa chang to concern . A stiff glass of brandi brought the life back to him onc more . `` there , I am better now ! '' said he . `` these last few day have been too much for me . I am convinc that I could not stand it ani longer . It is a nightmar -- a horribl nightmar -- that I should be arrest as a burglar in what ha been for so long my own museum . and yet I can not blame you . you could not have done otherwis . My hope alway wa that I should get it all over befor I wa detect . thi would have been my last night 's work . '' `` how did you get in ? '' ask mortim . `` By take a veri great liberti with your privat door . but the object justifi it . the object justifi everyth . you will not be angri when you know everyth -- at least , you will not be angri with me . I had a key to your side door and also to the museum door . I did not give them up when I left . and so you see it wa not difficult for me to let myself into the museum . I use to come in earli befor the crowd had clear from the street . then I hid myself in the mummy-cas , and took refug there whenev simpson came round . I could alway hear him come . I use to leav in the same way as I came . '' `` you ran a risk . '' `` I had to . '' `` but whi ? what on earth wa your object -- you to do a thing like that ! '' mortim point reproach at the plate which lay befor him on the tabl . `` I could devis no other mean . I thought and thought , but there wa no altern except a hideou public scandal , and a privat sorrow which would have cloud our live . I act for the best , incred as it may seem to you , and I onli ask your attent to enabl me to prove it . '' `` I will hear what you have to say befor I take ani further step , '' said mortim , grimli . `` I am determin to hold back noth , and to take you both complet into my confid . I will leav it to your own generos how far you will use the fact with which I suppli you . '' `` We have the essenti fact alreadi . '' `` and yet you understand noth . let me go back to what pass a few week ago , and I will make it all clear to you . believ me that what I say is the absolut and exact truth . `` you have met the person who call himself captain wilson . I say 'call himself ' becaus I have reason now to believ that it is not hi correct name . It would take me too long if I were to describ all the mean by which he obtain an introduct to me and ingrati himself into my friendship and the affect of my daughter . He brought letter from foreign colleagu which compel me to show him some attent . and then , by hi own attain , which are consider , he succeed in make himself a veri welcom visitor at my room . when I learn that my daughter 's affect had been gain by him , I may have thought it prematur , but I certainli wa not surpris , for he had a charm of manner and of convers which would have made him conspicu in ani societi . `` He wa much interest in orient antiqu , and hi knowledg of the subject justifi hi interest . often when he spent the even with us he would ask permiss to go down into the museum and have an opportun of privat inspect the variou specimen . you can imagin that I , as an enthusiast , wa in sympathi with such a request , and that I felt no surpris at the constanc of hi visit . after hi actual engag to elis , there wa hardli an even which he did not pass with us , and an hour or two were gener devot to the museum . He had the free run of the place , and when I have been away for the even I had no object to hi do whatev he wish here . thi state of thing wa onli termin by the fact of my resign of my offici duti and my retir to norwood , where I hope to have the leisur to write a consider work which I had plan . `` It wa immedi after thi -- within a week or so -- that I first realiz the true natur and charact of the man whom I had so imprud introduc into my famili . the discoveri came to me through letter from my friend abroad , which show me that hi introduct to me had been forgeri . aghast at the revel , I ask myself what motiv thi man could origin have had in practis thi elabor decept upon me . I wa too poor a man for ani fortune-hunt to have mark me down . whi , then , had he come ? I rememb that some of the most preciou gem in europ had been under my charg , and I rememb also the ingeni excus by which thi man had made himself familiar with the case in which they were kept . He wa a rascal who wa plan some gigant robberi . how could I , without strike my own daughter , who wa infatu about him , prevent him from carri out ani plan which he might have form ? My devic wa a clumsi one , and yet I could think of noth more effect . If I had written a letter under my own name , you would natur have turn to me for detail which I did not wish to give . I resort to an anonym letter , beg you to be upon your guard . `` I may tell you that my chang from belmor street to norwood had not affect the visit of thi man , who had , I believ , a real and overpow affect for my daughter . As to her , I could not have believ that ani woman could be so complet under the influenc of a man as she wa . hi stronger natur seem to entir domin her . I had not realiz how far thi wa the case , or the extent of the confid which exist between them , until that veri even when hi true charact for the first time wa made clear to me . I had given order that when he call he should be shown into my studi instead of to the drawing-room . there I told him bluntli that I knew all about him , that I had taken step to defeat hi design , and that neither I nor my daughter desir ever to see him again . I ad that I thank god that I had found him out befor he had time to harm those preciou object which it had been the work of my life-tim to protect . `` He wa certainli a man of iron nerv . He took my remark without a sign either of surpris or of defianc , but listen grave and attent until I had finish . then he walk across the room without a word and struck the bell . `` 'ask miss andrea to be so kind as to step thi way , ' said he to the servant . `` My daughter enter , and the man close the door behind her . then he took her hand in hi . `` 'elis , ' said he , 'your father ha just discov that I am a villain . He know now what you knew befor . ' `` she stood in silenc , listen . `` 'he say that we are to part for ever , ' said he . `` she did not withdraw her hand . `` 'will you be true to me , or will you remov the last good influenc which is ever like to come into my life ? ' `` 'john , ' she cri , passion . ' I will never abandon you ! never , never , not if the whole world were against you . ' `` In vain I argu and plead with her . It wa absolut useless . her whole life wa bound up in thi man befor me . My daughter , gentlemen , is all that I have left to love , and it fill me with agoni when I saw how powerless I wa to save her from her ruin . My helpless seem to touch thi man who wa the caus of my troubl . `` 'it may not be as bad as you think , sir , ' said he , in hi quiet , inflex way . ' I love elis with a love which is strong enough to rescu even one who ha such a record as I have . It wa but yesterday that I promis her that never again in my whole life would I do a thing of which she should be asham . I have made up my mind to it , and never yet did I make up my mind to a thing which I did not do . ' `` He spoke with an air which carri convict with it . As he conclud he put hi hand into hi pocket and he drew out a small cardboard box . `` ' I am about to give you a proof of my determin , ' said he . 'thi , elis , shall be the first-fruit of your redeem influenc over me . you are right , sir , in think that I had design upon the jewel in your possess . such ventur have had a charm for me , which depend as much upon the risk run as upon the valu of the prize . those famou and antiqu stone of the jewish priest were a challeng to my dare and my ingenu . I determin to get them . ' `` ' I guess as much . ' `` 'there wa onli one thing that you did not guess . ' `` 'and what is that ? ' `` 'that I got them . they are in thi box . ' `` He open the box , and tilt out the content upon the corner of my desk . My hair rose and my flesh grew cold as I look . there were twelv magnific squar stone engrav with mystic charact . there could be no doubt that they were the jewel of the urim and thummim . `` 'good god ! ' I cri . 'how have you escap discoveri ? ' `` 'bi the substitut of twelv other , made especi to my order , in which the origin are so care imit that I defi the eye to detect the differ . ' `` 'then the present stone are fals ? ' I cri . `` 'they have been for some week . ' `` We all stood in silenc , my daughter white with emot , but still hold thi man by the hand . `` 'you see what I am capabl of , elis , ' said he . `` ' I see that you are capabl of repent and restitut , ' she answer . `` 'ye , thank to your influenc ! I leav the stone in your hand , sir . Do what you like about it . but rememb that whatev you do against me , is done against the futur husband of your onli daughter . you will hear from me soon again , elis . It is the last time that I will ever caus pain to your tender heart , ' and with these word he left both the room and the hous . `` My posit wa a dread one . here I wa with these preciou relic in my possess , and how could I return them without a scandal and an exposur ? I knew the depth of my daughter 's natur too well to suppos that I would ever be abl to detach her from thi man now that she had entir given him her heart . I wa not even sure how far it wa right to detach her if she had such an amelior influenc over him . how could I expos him without injur her -- and how far wa I justifi in expos him when he had voluntarili put himself into my power ? I thought and thought until at last I form a resolut which may seem to you to be a foolish one , and yet , if I had to do it again , I believ it would be the best cours open to me . `` My idea wa to return the stone without anyon be the wiser . with my key I could get into the museum at ani time , and I wa confid that I could avoid simpson , whose hour and method were familiar to me . I determin to take no one into my confid -- not even my daughter -- whom I told that I wa about to visit my brother in scotland . I want a free hand for a few night , without inquiri as to my come and go . To thi end I took a room in hard street that veri night , with an intim that I wa a pressman , and that I should keep veri late hour . `` that night I made my way into the museum , and I replac four of the stone . It wa hard work , and took me all night . when simpson came round I alway heard hi footstep , and conceal myself in the mummy-cas . I had some knowledg of gold-work , but wa far less skil than the thief had been . He had replac the set so exactli that I defi anyon to see the differ . My work wa rude and clumsi . howev , I hope that the plate might not be care examin , or the rough of the set observ , until my task wa done . next night I replac four more stone . and tonight I should have finish my task had it not been for the unfortun circumst which ha caus me to reveal so much which I should have wish to keep conceal . I appeal to you , gentlemen , to your sens of honour and of compass , whether what I have told you should go ani farther or not . My own happi , my daughter 's futur , the hope of thi man 's regener , all depend upon your decis . `` which is , '' said my friend , `` that all is well that end well and that the whole matter end here and at onc . tomorrow the loos set shall be tighten by an expert goldsmith , and so pass the greatest danger to which , sinc the destruct of the templ , the urim and thummim ha been expos . here is my hand , professor andrea , and I can onli hope that under such difficult circumst I should have carri myself as unselfishli and as well . '' just one footnot to thi narr . within a month elis andrea wa marri to a man whose name , had I the indiscret to mention it , would appeal to my reader as one who is now wide and deservedli honour . but if the truth were known that honour is due not to him , but to the gentl girl who pluck him back when he had gone so far down that dark road along which few return .